Last week, Zuma said seven branches had lodged disputes and that a team would listen to the formal complaints this week. However, on Thursday he said this number had increased to 30. Zuma said the party was still to undergo the process of listening to the disputes as branches had until November 16 to hold BGMs. “We have received 30 appeals and the organisation will deal with that process internally. It’s not for us to tell whether or not we have started with that process. We will listen to all the disputes; the BGM process is still ongoing. We can’t communicate the branch process because we must communicate with those who have lodged disputes,” Zuma said. Zuma refused to reveal which branches had lodged disputes, saying it was an internal party issue. Political analyst Thabani Khumalo  said there was secrecy around which branches had lodged complaints because of an agenda by the province to manipulate branches to deliver the province’s objectives. “This is why most of the processes are handled in secrecy, because their aim is to push their agenda as the province, not to give the branches space to express themselves or to exercise their constitutional right,” Khumalo said. Although the provincial leadership said 30 branches had lodged complaints, Khumalo said some of the disgruntled branches put that figure at about 80 branches. “Maybe only 30 branches have reflected to the provincial executive committee (PEC) and they’re not aware of the other 50. This could be because most of the aggrieved members of branches now decide to go straight to the national office, because they can’t complain to the PEC about a problem they’re responsible for and expect them to entertain that complaint”. He said the PEC overseeing the BGMs was a futile exercise because a structure with a court case disputing its legitimacy could not be entrusted with the task of preparing branches for a constitutional meeting of the organisation. “Although the PEC appealed the court judgment, the NEC should not have allowed them to oversee the running of BGMs with this cloud hanging over it, and instead (should have) allowed a provincial task team to handle that process,” Khumalo said. He said KZN delegates nominated for the party’s 54th national conference next month would contaminate the conference because of the structure that had overseen their election to the conference. Daily News