Parents have come forward claiming their children’s safety has been compromised because  contract workers are living on the property. One pupil complained of seeing a naked man lying on a bed. There have also been reports that Dirkie Uys Primary School has traditionally offered accommodation to other schools and youth clubs, but mainly during school holidays. Parents from the Bluff Christian Academy (BCA), which is built on the same property as the Dirkie Uys Primary School, said when they collected their children from school recently, they were shocked to find adult men sitting on the nearby field. Latoya van Niekerk, who has a daughter at BCA, said: “I asked the teachers who the men were and I was told they are contractors. Even the teachers complained that they felt uncomfortable. My husband sent an e-mail to the school and was told it would be dealt with. This was more than six weeks ago. “As a parent, I am concerned for my children’s safety. We know the school does host children from time to time and that is okay, but these are grown men. What happens when the children need to go to the toilet?” Jacques Stephens, a parent from BCA, said he found it unacceptable that businesses were being run from school premises. Stephens, who was involved in last week’s search for two missing boys (they were found murdered), said strangers should not be allowed on school property. Served “I am aware of the Dirkie Uys Youth Backpackers which has for many many years served as accommodation for students from other areas. “Unfortunately, it seems that this youth backpackers has now become a bed ’* ’ breakfast,” he said. Stephens said the businesses on the school property had nothing to do with academics and therefore did not belong there. “I am already aware of the fact that a Grade 3 pupil had complained to a teacher that there was a naked man lying on a bed. This coupled with smoking between the children and alcohol bottles on the grounds is not acceptable,” he said. BCA principal Cheryl Ross said they had requested numerous meetings with the Dirkie Uys management to no avail. “The contractors living here leave after we arrive in the morning, driving their vehicles across our field where our foundation phase pupils should be playing. They come back while our pupils are still in aftercare, driving across our field again. “We have found empty alcohol bottles under our prefab buildings in the past and we have seen these contractors smoking openly on the side of our preschool classroom and on our pupils’ playground. “For our pupils’ safety, we have been forced to put measures in place like having additional staff on playground duty and stopping pupils from walking to the toilets on their own,” Ross said. The Daily News contacted Dirkie Uys for comment but was told by a woman named Debbie Pieterse that she managed the backpackers business. She said the school would not comment. Department spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa said: “We are going to investigate and get more information before we act.” Daily News