Whoonga addicts and robberies were rife, leading to more and more locals shopping at neighbouring Newlands East and Phoenix shopping centres. The first KFC - owned by a wealthy local family since the early nineties - suffered and was close to shutting down due to customer safety risks. Crime was uncontrollable as whoonga addicts made the shopping precinct their home. There was an exodus of businesses moving from KwaMashu Station to new neighbouring shopping malls. This meant that locals had to take a taxi to get to shops for even their basic needs. Fast forwarding a year, and businesses which chose to stay in the area today have a success story to tell about how they achieved a 70% decrease in crime at the centre. Made possible through the partnership between business and the community in a project supported by the eThekwini Municipality’s Safer Cities project, the KwaMashu Business Against Crime project, which had 20 volunteers from the ­community, was the answer. Patrols and removal of the whoonga addicts from the area was a turnaround strategy adopted by the community, businesses and the police. On Friday, the business community celebrated the decrease of crime in just one year. The initiative was supported by a number of local businesses in KwaMashu, including Big Box Co, KFC, Cambridge Foods, Vibe FM and Top Bets, which hoped to attract businesses to expand the reach of the project and further impact in the community. Reluctant Jonas Barausse, one of the owners of Big Box Co, who established and rented business units in the form of containers, said local business people were interested in renting accommodation, but were reluctant due to crime in the area. For those brave enough to take on the challenge, they had to do something about the crime levels to attract customers. Mfanafuthi Gumede, the chairperson of the KwaMashu against Crime Project, said the volunteers were from the community and they knew who the criminals were. “People are now able to shop freely without fear of being mugged,” said Gumede. One of the booming businesses is the recently opened Flava Club Coffee, a coffee shop with a township twist. Jabulani Mbhele, the owner of the shop, said he saw a gap in the market and grabbed it. “Crime was one of the reasons why KwaMashu never had a coffee shop,” he said. He sold a variety of coffees, home-made cakes and other beverages in a bar setting from a container. Visitors get to enjoy a cup of coffee seated on barstools while watching scenes of passing township life. Daily News