Ngobese, 64, the deputy chairperson of the Klipriver Taxi Association, was ambushed in his double-cab vehicle on the Matiwaneskop Road near Ladysmith on Tuesday morning. Ngobese, his daughter, driver and two bodyguards were shot dead. Six others were killed when Ngobese’s bakkie slammed into their minibus after being fired at. Family spokesperson Joyce Ngobese  said yesterday he had been resented by some members of his association because he had warned taxi owners that the association would not pay out if an affiliated vehicle involved in an accident did not have an operating permit. “He knew he was disliked, and told the family on numerous occasions about getting death threats. “We don’t know if his killers will come after us, but they have already done the damage,” she said. The mood in the Matiwaneskop area was sombre yesterday as locals trickled in to pay their respects. The family held back tears as they recalled Ngobese’s actions on his last day. “He woke up and took a bath. He had tea and went to his goat kraal before returning to the house. His two wives were supposed to have gone to town with him, but he told them to stay home as he was no longer comfortable travelling with them in the same car since the attempt on his life in September. “However, he took his daughter as she was going to a driving school,” said Joyce. Ngobese’s car was riddled with bullets in a previous attempt on his life on September 16. The taxi boss had spent a week in hospital before being discharged. He was on his way to check the vehicle’s status when he was killed. The Ngobese family said they were saddened by the deaths of the minibus passengers and driver as they were not involved in the taxi feud. It has been confirmed that among the six people killed in the minibus were three teachers and an administrative clerk employed at Matiwane Primary and Masoyi Secondary schools, little more than a kilometre from the scene of the ambush. It was still unclear who the other two passengers were. Education MEC Mthandeni Dlungwana held a meeting with teachers from both schools on Wednesday. At the meetings, two teachers collapsed and were taken to hospital. No details were available about their condition. “The situation is sad and tense. In Matiwane we had a teacher fainting after she was overcome by emotion. She was sent to a local clinic where she was treated and transferred to a provincial hospital,” Dlungwana said. Sadtu provincial deputy secretary Bheki Shandu said: “One teacher from Masoyi High School died on the way to hospital. Two teachers from Matiwaneskop Primary (ZA Dlamini and HOB Ziqubu, who are Sadtu members) and Ms SK Thwala, an administration clerk, died on the scene. Rose Shabalala is in ICU while Sihle Hlatshwayo is in critical but stable condition. Both are Sadtu members.” Attempts by the Daily News to confirm the family’s allegations regarding the Klipriver Taxi Association’s involvement were unsuccessful. Lindiwe Dladla, said a leader of the association, said she had cut ties with the organisation. She would not comment on its issues. A Mr Khumalo the Daily News was referred to said he was no longer active in the business of the association, and referred the newspaper to a Mr Mazibuko and a Mr Vilakazi, with the former being the chairperson of disciplinary processes at the association, while the latter was his deputy. However, both distanced themselves from the association. Klipriver Association’s legal representative Advocate Paul Jorgensen said the allegations made by the Ngobese family may have been started by rivals as an attempt to distance themselves from the attack by spreading disinformation. “The Klipriver chairperson, Jerome Masondo, has gone into hiding. We as his legal representatives do not even know his whereabouts, save for being in telephonic contact. There were attempts made on his life some years ago, but he survived and was elected chairman in 2015,” he said. Sizwe Association chairperson Germany Mabaso has denied his association’s involvement in the shooting. “It’s individuals with  ulterior motives who are involved in these killings. “I’ve gone into hiding after this incident for fear of my own life after comments from unknown people,” said Mabaso. Daily News