During cross-examination, Van Breda testified that she was the “opposite of a guard dog” and did not bark at strange sounds. Senior State prosecutor Susan Galloway pointed out that evidence earlier in the trial was that the family dog would bark at domestic worker Precious Munyongani when she arrived at the Van Breda home in the Stellenbsch security estate. Van Breda explained that was because Precious played with her and she barked at sounds she “found exciting”. He could not recall hearing the dog bark on the night at least one attacker entered his family’s home and murdered his parents, older brother and attempted to murder his younger sister, Marli. According to his version, he lost consciousness after the attackers fled, but could not recall hearing the dog barking before that. Van Breda has pleaded not guilty to three charges of murder, one of attempted murder and defeating the ends of justice. He claims his father, mother and brother were murdered by a laughing axe-wielding intruder at the family’s home on January 27, 2015. His sister Marli, who was 16 then, survived. The State alleges Henri committed the killings; his wounds were self-inflicted to make it look like he too was a victim. Galloway said yesterday she found it strange that if there had been more than one attacker, as stated in Van Breda’s plea explanation, only one moved to the upper level of the house where the family members were sleeping. She asked: “At no stage did the attacker call for help?” “No,” Van Breda replied. This was despite father Martin van Breda rushing into the boys’ bedroom when brother Rudi was being attacked. She said the other intruders could have cleaned out the bottom of the house, yet nothing was taken. “Isn’t it strange then they go to all the trouble of getting into your house, take out your family, except for you, and then not take a thing?” Van Breda agreed it was strange, unless he “interrupted them”. But Galloway said police officers who attended the scene were of the view that the “very neat” house didn’t look like one that had been broken into. She said Captain Nicholas Steyn had been called to the house because of Van Breda’s description of the balaclava-clad intruder. Steyn was investigating the balaclava gang behind a spate of home burglaries in the area at the time. His testimony was the Van Breda home did not have any signs of forced entry. - ANA