This was revealed yesterday in the Western Cape High Court by cellphone record analyst Anna-Marie van Niekerk, who read out the contents of WhatsApp messages and iMessages sent between the couple and messages sent to Jason’s mistress, Jolene Alterskye, by Rohde and his late wife. Susan died on July 24 last year. It was initially thought that she had committed suicide and hanged herself on the bathroom door at the Spier Wine Estate. But Rhode was later arrested and is now on trial for her murder. Van Niekerk told the court about the messages sent the day before Susan’s death, and that morning. A conversation extracted from Rohde’s cellphone showed that he had sent Alterskye a message expressing frustration, as he could not be with her. At 10.02am he wrote: “This weekend made me realise just how much I don’t want to be with Sue any more. All I can think of is you. I want to scream with frustration. I don’t want anything more in my life than to be with you.” Nearly an hour later he said: “Having you close is driving me crazy. Sue is driving me nuts! She follows me around like a f*** shadow.” Alterskye replied to one of the messages saying: “You my penguin forever.” Rohde wrote: “I absolutely hate it, I just want it to end. That same morning Rohde and his wife were exchanging slurs in a conversation via text messages. At 11.08am on July 23, 2016, Susan wrote to Rohde: “Or are you checking how much time you have?” He replied: “Oh for f*** sakes I’m sitting in a conference with 150 people watching me!” About 20 minutes later, she says: “You are a devious f** bastard.” Susan later orders her husband to remove “her” number from his cellphone and to reveal his blocked contacts. Rohde replied: “Because if I call her it will come up on seri, you idiot! Now leave, I have had enough. On my work day you are doing this to me. I want you gone now and I don’t care about the consequences.” In the string of messages ­Susan says she expected a ­divorce from him. She wrote: “And I know you are going to divorce me, so I am doing what I want now.” “You are going to die today, and so is she.” On the morning of her murder, Alterskye and Susan also exchanged words. At 5.50am Alterskye wrote to Susan: “Go wash your mouth.” Daily News