His wife, Deomathie, 73, was taken to hospital, having been stabbed in her chest. Premchun Ragnath and his wife were believed to be alone at home when the incident happened. His son, Seshkumar Premchun, said he arrived just after 2pm to give his father a packet of mangoes. He sent in a friend with the fruit, to give to his dad, while he waited in the car outside the house. “I was wondering why my friend was taking so long to come back.When I got out of the van to check, he ran down the stairs looking shocked. “Stammering, he told me someone had stabbed my father,” Premchun said. “When I got to the door, I saw two knives on the floor and blood trails everywhere. I walked into the lounge and saw my father lying in a pool of blood. “When I felt him, he was cold. My mother was in the bathroom, bleeding from a stab wound to her chest,” he added. Premchun said his mother suffered from dementia and could not give an account of what had happened. Premchun and his four brothers were all in shock. When the Daily News arrived, they were mopping up the blood. Phoenix police are investigating a case of murder. Glen Naidoo, of private security company KZN VIP Unit, said  Ragnath was stabbed in the neck and the mother had a superficial wound. “The mother was incoherent and could not give any details of what had happened. “There were two knives with their blades bent on the floor outside the back door. It did 
not appear as if anything was taken from the house,” Naidoo said. Neighbours, interviewed by the Daily News, said they had not seen or heard anything. Umesh Singh, Community Policing Forum chairperson, said the murder remained a mystery and police would leave no stone unturned to find the attacker. “We are all trying our level best to ensure that crime is kept to a minimum. I was shocked when the news came to me. Violent crime is becoming a norm in the country. “The community is saddened by the loss of a pensioner,” Singh said. Ragnath worked in the fruit-and-vegetable department of Spar for a number of years before he retired. He was also a well-known soccer player in the Riverside area in Durban North before the Group Areas Act relocated the residents to other suburbs in Durban. Daily News