The union said it hoped a forensic investigation would establish what had happened to the money and what was causing delays in the payment of service providers, which resulted in scores of schoolchildren not being fed. Earlier this month, the Daily News reported that some schools had only been paid part of the allocation per pupil and, as a result, principals were borrowing money to run schools. An investigation conducted by the provincial education portfolio committee recently found that at least 100 schools were not paid the annual norms and standards allocations. Last week, the Daily News also reported that a South Coast stationery and textbook service provider had in stock R3.5 million worth of books, because schools were still waiting for funds from the department. Yesterday, National Teachers’ Union deputy president Allen Thompson  said the union had written to the head of the department, Enock Nzama, wanting an explanation. “We suspect that the money is invested somewhere to accumulate interest for high-ranking department officials, or has been stolen,” Thompson said. He said the department must come clean and explain what happened to the money. “Education offices were operating on skeleton staff and teachers are working without service providers - this is an indication that the system is collapsing,” he said. The Daily News also learnt that while some service providers were battling to feed pupils, many had stopped the service. The National School Nutrition Programme has an obligation to feed pupils  at least one nutritious meal a day, including a fruit. Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba recently issued a stern warning to government departments to pay service providers within 30 days. The uMgungundlovu district has apparently received telephone calls and letters of complaints from principals that children were not being fed. “We have been forwarding the letters and complaints to our nutrition division. I am not sure how many had been paid, but we are still receiving complaints from principals,” said a source from the district. Thompson said the reality was that thousands of pupils went home hungry although there was a R1 billion allocation as part of the Schools’ National Nutrition Programme. Education Department spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa denied the accusations, saying service providers were paid by the end of October. He attributed possible non-payments to service providers’ details not being updated on the government’s database: “If a service provider’s details are not updated on an annual basis, the system automatically rejects the payment.” Daily News