With a recent spike in house robberies, police and private security companies are calling on Durban North residents to step up their security and ensure that they take the necessary precautions to ensure their gates are not easily derailed. Armed men are caught on CCTV cameras derailing property gates in a number of recent incidents. Last week, armed men stormed four houses in two days. The robberies happened within minutes of each other on Wednesday and Thursday. Marshall Security spokesperson Kyle van Reenen said seven armed men derailed a property gate in Addison Drive. The men forced open the door and held up the family before fleeing with a safe containing jewellery. A group of men also derailed a gate in the second incident in Hambridge Avenue. “About five armed men smashed through the glass sliding door and entered the house. Here too, they held up the family. A woman and her children were locked in the bathroom. The father was taken around the house to retrieve the valuables; the suspects then fled with an undisclosed amount of cash, jewellery, a cellphone and other valuable items,” he said. Just a day before, seven armed men forced entry into a home in Westridge Road in uMhlanga Rocks. “The female home owner was held up at gunpoint while the men ransacked her home, making off with a large amount of jewellery and a safe containing undisclosed items, before fleeing in a waiting getaway vehicle,” Van Reenen said. About 45 minutes later, seven armed men derailed a driveway gate to a home in Kenneth 
Kaunda (Northway) Road, before forcing entry into the home by breaking through a security door and gate with a crowbar. “The home owner’s children, who were home at the time, confined themselves to a bedroom while the armed men ransacked their home, making off with undisclosed items. “Before the suspects could flee the scene, the home owner returned home. “Noticing his driveway gate open, the man suspected the worst and was confronted by an armed suspect. “The home owner and his daughter, who was in the vehicle with him at the time, fled for safety, while the suspects fled the home towards Blackburn Road,” Van Reenen said. A neighbour who saw the incident pursued the vehicle to the intersection of Kenneth Kaunda and Swapo roads, where the suspects fired a shot at him. Van Reenen said it was believed the robberies were all the work of a syndicate and security companies were working closely with police to bring the gang to book. “The pattern we have observed is that there are seven heavily armed suspects who arrive in a high-end vehicle. One person derails the gate and the vehicle drives in. Six men enter the house while an armed driver keeps a watch for police, as we saw in the Bluff incident where a private security guard was killed. “The suspects are heavily armed and have very little fear of shooting and killing. The gang is mostly looking for jewellery, safes and small high-end items that can be carried quickly. They also take home CCTV systems or destroy them. This gang takes no longer than 10 minutes and are very precise,” he said. Haden Searles, Durban North and uMhlanga Community Policing Forum chairperson, said residents needed to report suspicious activity and vehicles in their areas to police. Searles said police were able to patrol and monitor areas in this way. He urged residents to take the necessary safety precautions and join community policing forums and WhatsApp groups. “Residents need to band together and create street patrols. Having security measures such as beams and CCTV footage can also serve as early-
warning detectors. We do have plans in place but cannot reveal too much at the moment. But we know that when crime is squeezed from other suburbs, they tend to move along to other areas,” he said. Searles hailed the efforts of police who recently intercepted a known criminal, allegedly on his way to commit another crime. On Sunday, police officers intercepted the man, travelling in a taxi  at the intersection of the M4 North Coast and M27. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said that when the man saw police, he alighted from the taxi and fired at officers. They returned fire, fatally wounding the man. Police found two unlicensed firearms, a 9mm Norinco pistol and a 9m Glock pistol at the scene. Searles said he had no doubt that the man was linked to a number of house robberies. Ward councillor Shaun Ryley said he had called for an urgent meeting with the Durban North police station commander and the CPF chairperson to discuss the increase in reports of home invasions and violent crime in the area. “The basis of the meeting is to determine whether there has been an actual spike in this type of crime according to their records. “If this is the case, we want to know what is being done to address this. We want to know if police have the resources to tackle this issue. “We are suggesting that if there are constraints then a request needs to be made to the provincial structures of the police to request assistance in order to increase patrols and decrease reaction time,” Ryley said. eThekwini deputy mayor Fawzia Peer said she would call for a meeting with police to find a working solution to decrease crime in the area.