The SACP  said it would not be drawn into criticism of Ramaphosa’s decision to reveal the names of leaders he wants as part of the party’s senior national leadership, if he is elected ANC president at its 54th national elective conference next month. At a rally in Limpopo at the weekend, Ramaphosa named Naledi Pandor as his deputy, Mchunu as secretary-general, incumbent ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe as national chairperson and Paul Mashatile as treasurer-general. Ramaphosa’s move was criticised by the ANC Youth League, uMkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans Association and the KZN branch of the SA National Civic Organisation (Sanco). “The SACP is not an internal structure of the ANC. The deputy president is not the first ANC leader to pronounce his views in public; the president and other leaders have been doing it,” said Alex Mashilo, SACP spokesperson. “It is unprincipled and hypocritical to comment when one person does something and when others do the same, you don’t comment,” Mashilo said. He said Ramaphosa was not the first ANC leader to declare who he wanted to see leading the ANC; some officials were openly campaigning and putting themselves forward as candidates. “Our policy decision is that we’re not going to pronounce names as the SACP.” The ANC needed to develop a policy on major leadership transition, he said.  The party could not afford dirty tricks, such as “manufactured rogue intelligence reports” on candidates and dividing the party, as this would destroy the movement. “Why should we now be invited to comment? We think that happens because people don’t like that candidate (Ramaphosa). People want to co-opt us into their campaigns to ­condemn another person when they themselves have been ­pronouncing without being condemned.” Mchunu, who Ramaphosa touted as his secretary-general, said when President Jacob Zuma announced his preference for Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma as his successor, there was no statement condemning that - “there was deafening silence.  Ideally they would’ve issued critical statements when Zuma made his pronouncement on Dlamini Zuma”. Cosatu president, Sdumo Dlamini, had declined to comment. Daily News