The hospital marked the day with a celebration that included doctors, nurses and patients. Heinrich Venter, the hospital’s general manager, said he was honoured to have the celebration, and that the hospital had helped hundreds of thousands of patients and their families over the years. “Today the hospital remains a beacon of hope for the people of Durban and from further afield, who continue to rely on its specialised, world-class health-care services. “The 125th anniversary is a milestone, and it is most gratifying to know that we are a part of such a rich legacy,” he said. St Augustine’s, known as the “grande dame” of local hospitals, was started by nine Augustinian nuns who came here  from France in 1892, and who treated people for tuberculosis. “The 464-bed facility is widely acknowledged to be a premier private hospital in the province, and has won numerous awards for service excellence.” The hospital has had a number of firsts. A full body scanner was introduced in 1982. St Augustine’s became the first hospital in KwaZulu-Natal to use its hyperbaric medicine centre in 2000 to treat conditions like gas embolism and cyanide poisoning, among others. Dr Walter R Hackman is one of the people who have seen the innovations while working at the hospital for the past 50years. The ear, nose and throat (ENT) specialist said: “I feel most privileged to have spent my entire ENT career at this outstanding institution and am grateful to have had the assistance and co-operation of managers and staff members throughout my time at the hospital.” Recently retired  nurse Ruth Naude, who had served for 35years at the hospital, shared a moving memory. “I once nursed a critically-ill baby girl who had lost her hearing due to meningitis. “Her parents returned to see me when she was two years old, and again after she had matriculated and about to enter university, to let me know how well she had progressed,” Naude said. “This was among the most rewarding and memorable occasions of my time at the hospital.” Daily News