Port Elizabeth - Christopher Panayiotou celebrates his 31st on Thursday, ironically the same day Judge Dayalin Chetty will hand down his judgment in his murder trial at the Port Elizabeth High Court. The court is expected to be packed with 'Justice for Jayde' supporters who will attend proceedings wearing black. The trial against Panayiotou and his two co-accused, Sinethemba Nenembe and Zolain Sibeko has run for a period of 62 days, in a space of over a year. At the trial-within-a-trial which was held to determine the admissibility of a secret video recording, State Advoacte Marius Stander called a total of 17 witnesses. At the main trial, the State called a total of of 58 witnesses. The State argued that Jayde's murder was a "contract killing" which included three stages, the preparation, execution and cover up of the killing. Stander alleges that Panayiotou had Jayde killed because he could no longer afford to keep his mistress, Chanelle Coutts and wife happy. The secret video was subsequently ruled admissible and was aired in court. In the video the businessman chats to alleged middleman Luthando Siyoni, and seemingly implicates himself in his wife Jayde's 2015 murder. Panayiotou was arrested in May 2015‚ after police recorded a conversation between him and Siyoni. Siyoni was allegedly asked by his boss to recruit a hitman, Sizwe Vumazonke, to kidnap and kill the schoolteacher. The bouncer has since recanted on his confession made to police. Defence Advocate Terry Price has continually stated throughout the trial that Siyoni was "beaten into making a confession" further arguing that evidence was obtained unconstitutionally. Price called 10 witnesses in total at the trial. Throughout the trial Panayiotou has shown absolutely no emotion, remaining brass faced even when graphic images of Jayde's bloody body was displayed on court projectors. The State alleges that Nenembe assisted Vumazonke to kidnap and murder the teacher at the behest of her husband. Vumazonke has since died. Sibeko has been named as the person who was allegedly asked to source a firearm for Jayde’s killing. The three men face charges of conspiracy to commit murder, murder, kidnapping, robbery with aggravating circumstances and unlicensed possession of firearm and ammunition. Panayiotou faces an additional charge of defeating the ends of justice. African News Agency