The women on this page are not all victims of violence, but they so easily could be, given the statistics on violence against women. Statistics SA reveal that 21% of women older than 18 have been violently abused by their domestic partners. One in four women have experienced gender-based violence. More than 100 people are raped each day. The Medical Research Council estimates that half of South Africa’s children will be abused before they turn 18. It doesn’t end there. Tomorrow is the start of 16 Days of Activism for No Violence Against Women and Children, and the Daily News and its sister titles will be taking a hard look behind the statistics. Abuse in all its forms affects millions of people, whether it is visibly violent in nature or discreet acts of systemic abuse - “slut-shaming”, body-shaming, harassment and the continued debasement of women and children. The statistics go on, but the violence can stop, with your help. Raise awareness by supporting the many initiatives that are being hosted in your communities during the 16 Days of Activism for No Violence Against Women and Children. Paint your fingernail orange, wear orange, join the marches, take to social media. Just Don’t Look Away. Call it out when you encounter behaviour that seeks to debase and dehumanise women, get involved in a local organisation that supports women and children victims. We will be featuring them during this campaign. We will also turn the spotlight on non-governmental and community-based organisations (NGOs and CBOs) that work to provide help, support, shelter and compassion to victims and survivors, as well as let you know every day in this newspaper the local activities that you can get involved in. Use these 16 days to reflect on what we are doing wrong and how we may be, with our own silence or behaviour, empowering, protecting or enabling those who abuse our children and women. Examine new or alternative ways to raise our children, free of violence. Whatever you do ... Don’t Look Away. Daily News