Durban - Fourteen people lost their lives on KwaZulu-Natal roads over the weekend as the festive season draws near. Rescue Care Paramedics responded to some of the road carnages in the province that claimed the lives of motorists and their passengers. On Friday evening, two men were killed after the vehicle they were travelling in lost control and overturned on the M7 Durban bound, before Hans Dettman in Pinetown, said Garrith Jamieson, Rescue Care Operations Director. “One male was found next to the taxi having sustained major injuries and he was declared deceased on the scene. Further up the M7 at the Hans Dettman offramp a male was trapped under a vehicle. It is believed whilst the taxi was rolling the patient was ejected from the wreckage and a vehicle hit into him leaving him trapped under the vehicle, with the help of a breakdown the vehicle was lifted off the man,” said Jamieson. On Sunday afternoon, three males and two females were killed after the vehicle they were travelling in left the N3 just after the Pavillion Mall and came to rest on its roof on Conway Road, Berea West, Westville. “Five people were entrapped in the wreckage. Four occupants had been ejected from the vehicle and were found lying on the roadway. Immediately more ambulances as well as Advanced Life Support Paramedics were dispatched together with Durban Fire Department. Two occupants who had been ejected had suffered major injuries and were declared deceased on the scene. Durban Fire Department worked to free the remaining trapped occupants in the vehicle using the Jaws of Life whilst Paramedics worked to stabilise them. Once freed it was determined that five occupants had passed away on the scene and four others had sustained serious injuries,” said Jamieson. Later in the evening, seven people died at Mfongomfungo area in Nquthu after an articulated truck used as transportation overturned, said Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo, the MEC of Health in KwaZulu-Natal. Dhlomo said more than 60 people were taken to Charles Johnson Hospital and eight to Madadeni Hospital.
 
At the start of the month, Joe Maswanganyi, the Minister of Transport had called on all motorists and pedestrians to be cautious when using the road and directed law enforcement officers to arrest transgressors. “Where road users fail to obey the rules of the road, there will be consequences,” warned Maswanganyi. With the festive season closing in, the minister has directed law enforcement officers to heighten the provisions of the Road Safety Strategy as approved by Cabinet, which includes amongst others, the implementation of the 24 hour shift for traffic officers to ensure high visibility and greater impact on the prevention of crashes and a reduction of fatalities. Maswanganyi said that as the Department of Transport, they will continue to implement the 365 Days Road Safety Campaign, which declares road safety as a daily commitment by all entities of the Department working together with provincial and municipal authorities to intensify law enforcement operations. Through this campaign, we have been conducting law enforcement operations as well as road safety education and awareness activations throughout the country. Daily News