Durban - Thousands of shoppers descended on various shopping malls around Durban on Friday as retailers slashed prices for Black Friday. Shoppers from all walks of life made their way to shopping centres where some of the stores like Game had opened from midnight. Sandile Mbili of Chatsworth said he arrived at Pavillion shopping centre early so he could take advantage of huge markdowns on items he said he desperately needed. He said he was excited about this year's Black Friday because unlike last year he was able to budget properly. “I was here from 10.30pm on Thursday specifically woke up early so I could purchase as much nappies as I can since I’m going to be a father very soon. This is my only opportunity to prepare for him/her just to make sure that when my baby boy or girl arrives I can welcome him/her to the world without worry instead with an open heart and a smile,” said Mbili. Customers still waiting to get inside Game in Pavilion. Picture: Motshwari Mofokeng Teboho Moiloa from Pinetown said she was very disappointed to find out that items she desperately needed were sold out. “I wanted to purchase a TV and most of the stores I have visited are already sold out. Unlike last year I would say this year I am more prepared and know what I’m looking for. Moiloa cautioned shoppers against impulse shopping something she said she was a victim of last year. “Last year I fell victim to impulse shopping because I had not compiled a shopping list nor budgeted for the day. I didn’t know what I wanted to buy and so I ended up with two trolleys full of items I did not need,” she said. A customer grabbing a TV from one of Game's TV deals. Picture: Motshwari Mofokeng Police visibility at the mall was present, with five officers spread at various shops to prevent any criminal activities from happening. Captain Lenilsh Madhan who was in charge of police activities at the mall said their presence was a mere precaution and that shoppers should not be alarmed. “We doing visible policing with the intention of making sure no act of crime is committed. There hasn’t been any major incidents reported as yet but we will be keeping a very watchful eye on everything as the day progresses,” said Madhan. Martin Mbele a security guard at Game Pavilion said his shift started from midnight when the store opened its doors. “It’s been a very hectic morning for everyone taking part in today’s Black Friday. Most of our customers have been disciplined with only a few incidents taking drawing attention,” said Mbele. “We had to deal with a very large crowd before we opened. People were very eager to gain entry to the store that unfortunately one of our doors was slightly broken,” explained Mbele. Customers inside Checkers. Picture: Motshwari Mofokeng Rajan Govender who travelled from Chatsworth said he was very satisfied with the price difference on mark down prices and said he enjoyed the whole experience of shopping in the early hours of the morning. “It’s very great exciting feeling when you see so many people already up in the morning to take advantage of these specials. We all up for a common goal to save and get the most we need with markdown prices,” said Govender. “I would urge everyone who plans on going out to shop today to be very patient as queues will stretch even further as the day progresses. We all want to shop and exit with very little hassle and people should not get to frustrated if things do not go their way,” he said. Quinton Marl from Sydenham said he embraced the experience of waking up in the early hours of the morning to shop something he said he never thought he would do. “I was here from 5am with my family to shop for groceries and mostly furniture. Massive price drops like these should happen more often and accommodate everyone,” said Marl. A customer leaving Game with her TV. Picture: Motshwari Mofokeng ER24 emergency services were also on duty and could be seen patrolling at various floor levels at the mall. Leo Fourie from ER24 said their presence would possibly calm shoppers and prevent any emergencies such as that of people collapsing. “We have medics on call to assist should something major happen during the day,” said Fourie. “The medics that can be seen patrolling are all on call to attend to minor cases should people collapse which is something that might be caused by standing for long hours and lack of fluids especially water.  We urge everyone to keep hydrated and stock up on snacks and those that have medical conditions to also alert anyone nearby or present a detailed medical card for easy assistance should anything happen but hopefully nothing will,” said Fourie. Today’s Black Friday sale promotion is expected to carryover till Sunday with stores like Game extending their shopping hours to allow customers the best shopping experience with less hassle this weekend. Daily News