Thabiso Zulu and Less Stuta have been vocal about allegations of corruption and mismanagement of public funds in the multimillion-rand upgrades to the uMzimkhulu Memorial Hall. Both have given testimony to the public protector investigation probing the matter, while Zulu also testified at the Moerane commission investigating political killings in the province. “On Thursday, we were notified by national crime intelligence that a hitman from the notorious Glebelands Hostel had been sent to kill us. We were told not to move and stay where we were,” Zulu said. Police had not responded at the time of going to print. But the death threats are not new, Stuta said. “There are days when I am followed by unregistered cars. Two weeks ago someone tried to cut my fence and gain entry to my home,” he said. Zulu lambasted the state for failing to protect them, saying if he or Stuta were killed, their blood would be on the state’s hands. “Why are we being encouraged to expose corruption if we are going to suffer? Why must people give testimony at the commission if no one is going to protect us? “If I die, people must know that I did everything to ask for protection, but nothing was done,” Zulu said. Both men said they did not regret blowing the lid on the alleged corruption. “There is no fear, we are not scared, but the situation is bad,” Zulu said. “I grew up in the ANC and I will not leave the ANC or hide from the rot that is destroying the movement,” Stuta said. Meanwhile, KwaZulu-Natal Violence Monitor Mary de Haas  sent a letter to the Moerane commission last week describing the "grave danger" the two men were in, and asking the commission to intervene. “These threats go beyond the commission; people are threatened for speaking out, it’s an onslaught on democracy. It means they will fear to speak out about corruption in government in case they get killed,” she said. Solo Mdledle, secretary of the Moerane commission, said Zulu was offered a place in the witness protection programme, but had declined the offer.