Durban - The National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) has issued a warning over the impending Spring Tide which will have an impact on swimming conditions for the upcoming weekend. Craig Lambinon, spokesperson for the NSRI, said with the approaching full moon Spring Tide beach bathers and shoreline anglers are most at risk.
“The approaching full moon Spring Tide occurs on December 3 with the next Spring Tide, a New Moon Spring Tide, occurring on December 18,” Lambinon said. He said this being the beginning of the December festive season with universities and schools breaking for December and families beginning their December, bathers and boaters around the coast,  at inland rivers, dams and lakes need to be extra cautious. “With the approaching full moon Spring Tide beach bathers and shoreline anglers are most at risk. This full moon Spring Tide which peaks on Sunday  means that from about Thursday high tide and low tides will gradually start to increase in intensity, peaking on December 3 and then gradually declining in intensity until about the 8th,” Lambinon said. Then the next Spring Tide, a New Moon Spring Tide, peaks on December 18. Spring Tide happens twice every month, at full moon and at new moon. 
Spring Tides bring a higher than normal high tide and a lower than normal low tide, causing stronger than normal rip currents, for a few days leading up to the full moon or new moon, peaking on the day of the full moon OR new moon and lasting for a few days after the full moon OR new moon. 
There are two high tides and two low tides every day. During Spring Tide the twice daily high tides are higher than normal and the twice daily low tides are lower than normal and while rip currents are always present the Spring Tide creates stronger than normal rip currents. A Spring Tide warning has been issued the National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI). PICTURE : NSRI  Rip Currents are caused when the water reaching the shoreline in waves, swells and sea currents retreats back into the sea and this is achieved in rip currents (a river of water retreating through the incoming swells back out into the sea). There are two types of rip currents, permanent rip currents - found alongside islands, rocky outcrops jutting into the sea, at river mouths, in between reefs and alongside harbour walls and piers, are found constantly occurring in the same place allowing the water reaching the shoreline to retreat back into the sea in the permanent rip current and then there are temporary rip currents - found along beach fronts (along the shoreline) and they are forever changing their position and are unpredictable and can form suddenly along a beach front without warning at different places along the shore front throughout the day. During Spring Tide these permanent rip currents and temporary rip currents are stronger than normal and although rip currents at all times pose a danger to bathers they pose the greatest danger during the Spring Tide. “Bathers are at risk of being swept out to sea by rip currents while swimming or wading in water along the beach front. Even bathers wading in shallow water who find themselves trapped in a rip current that forms suddenly are at risk of being swept out to sea by rip currents,” warned Lambinon. Daily News