The global spotlight is now on ongoing, systemic harassment of and violence against women as women from all walks of life - from celebrities to ordinary South Africans - come forward to support victims with the rallying cry... #metoo Independent Media has launched its Don’t Look Away campaign in support of 16 Days of Activism to End Violence Against Women and Children which runs globally from November 25 to December 10. Statistics SA show that 21 percent of women older than 18 have been violently abused by their domestic partners. One in four women have experienced gender-based violence. More than 100 people are raped each day. The Medical Research Council estimates that half of South Africa’s children will be abused before they turn 18. It doesn’t end there. November 25 is the start of 16 Days of Activism to End Violence Against Women and Children, and all Independent Media titles will be taking a hard look behind the statistics. Abuse in all its forms affects millions of people, whether it is visibly violent in nature or discreet acts of systemic abuse - slut-shaming, body-shaming, harassment and the continue debasement of women and children. The statistics go on, but the violence can stop, with your help. Raise awareness by supporting the many initiatives that are being hosted in your communities during the campaign. Paint your fingernail Orange, wear Orange, join the marches, take to social media. Just Don’t Look Away. Call it out when you encounter behaviour that seeks to debase and dehumanise women, get involved in a local organisation that supports women and children victims. We will be featuring them during this campaign. We will also turn the spotlight on non-government and community based organisations that work to provide help, support, shelter and compassion to victims and survivors as well as let you know every day in this newspaper, the local activities that you can get involved in. Use these 16 days to reflect on what we are doing wrong and how we may be, with our own silence or behaviour, empowering, protecting or enabling those who abuse our children and women. Examine new or alternative ways to raise our children, free of violence. Whatever you do ... Don’t Look Away. Cape Argus