“Look at the leaders in the party who have been trained and mentored by him. We are preparing for the 2019 elections, and whoever will lead the party has to start now.” On Sunday, Buthelezi announced he would relinquish his role as party leader at the next elective conference, and he said Velenkosini Hlabisa had been identified as his potential successor. Speaking yesterday, Buthelezi, the party’s leader for more than four decades, said he had tried to quit as president many times in the past, but the party would not allow it. “The party structures decided that Hlabisa was the prime candidate for presidency, and I agree with it. He has been with the party since he was 13, he is a former Inkatha Youth Brigade member and he is now the mayor of Hlabisa.” To say that Buthelezi is adored by party members is an understatement. At IFP headquarters in Durban, a picture of a young Buthelezi adorns the wall in the reception area. Buthelezi said the party was rooted in the ideals of the ANC’s founding fathers, who in 1912 chose a policy of non-violence and negotiation. Buthelezi said the turning point for him came in 1974, when he and OR Tambo planned to go to Addis Ababa to attend a conference the aim of which was to call for sanctions and disinvestment in South Africa. “OR wanted sanctions and I was against it. I spoke to people in South Africa and they said they would starve to death if economic sanctions were implemented. “I spoke to OR and he said that I should go on my own as it would have been wrong for two leaders from South Africa to disagree on the issue.” For now, Buthelezi will continue in the role he has occupied since 1975. But when the time comes for him to hand over the reins to the next leader of the party, he wants to devote more time to his family. “My wife and I are octogenarians and we are going to sit together and bask in the sun. “We have lost five of our eight children, and I want to spend more time with the three who are here. My children did not spend a lot of time with me - such are the demands placed on the leader of a political party. “My wife is a shy person and has been a source of inspiration to me through thick and thin. When I settle down, I want to go through my documents and papers and send them to the The Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi Museum and documentation centre in Ulundi.” For now, he is content travelling between Durban, Ulundi and Parliament in Cape Town. He is aware of the changing face of South African politics and the urgent need for education, to be at the forefront in the country’s growth. Daily News