The chamber’s chief executive, Melanie Veness, said they would advocate for electricity supplier Eskom not to be awarded any additional tariff increases by the National Energy Regulator of South Africa (Nersa). “The increase is unaffordable in the current economic circumstances and will definitely lead to job losses. Business operates with very tight margins to compete in these times of very low economic growth,” Veness said. Electricity was a significant expense for many businesses, being second to labour cost, she said. “The additional cost has to be accommodated somewhere else and since it cannot be passed on to customers in pricing because that would just render us uncompetitive, it must be accommodated by shedding labour costs.” Eskom wants its clients to pay an average of  more than 9% more for electricity from April 1 next year and proposed that municipalities pay 27% more for bulk electricity purchases from July next year. The PCB said it represented about 800 members from all sectors and said that Eskom’s staff costs had increased by 46% over the last decade relative to a reduction in sales. “This is irrational. Eskom needs to cut their cloth to fit their anticipated income. Eskom should rationalise. If they do not, the losses would take place in the private sector which sound economics dictates should be the creator of jobs,” Veness said. PCB accused Eskom of eroding its own customer base and self-inflicting the drop in sales. “Return On Investment (ROI) is unacceptable - sales have decreased, nominal capacity hasn’t increased by much, debt and the costs of financing the debt have sky-rocketed, profits have decreased and staff costs have increased exponentially,” Veness said. Parliament’s analysis of Eskom’s financial position released earlier this year found that the increase in the utilities revenues over the past 10 years had not been due to increased electricity sales. The total electricity sales were said to have declined after 2007/2008 in response to the effects of the global financial crisis, country-wide load-shedding, as well as sustained lower economic growth. Between 2007/2008 and 2015/2016 the industrial and mining sectors, which account for between 38-42% of direct Eskom sales, decreased demand by 20.4% and 5.5%, respectively. Inefficiency Veness said they had submitted to the panel conducting public hearings on the electricity tariff increases that the new build programmes should be looked at and halted where feasible to do so or old plants decommissioned. The chamber added that they would not fund inefficiency or alleged corruption. “We don’t tolerate it in our own firms. “Eskom must get their house in order before they look to the private sector which is run very efficiently because unlike Eskom, we are forced to compete,” she said. KwaZulu-Natal Cosatu secretary-general Edwin
Mkhize said Eskom’s tariff hike request was unacceptable. Mkhize said that it was irresponsible of Eskom to have put forward such a proposal. Daily News  