In fact, this number can also be called if you want a “safe abortion”, “penis enlargement” or even a “ladies clinic”. The stickers, which some Durban residents believe multiply weekly, have become an eyesore in many neighbourhoods and central business districts. The eThekwini Municipality admits that it is fighting an uphill battle with the vandals. City spokeswoman Tozi Mthethwa said they are trying to rid the city of these illegal adverts plastered on street poles, rubbish bins and bus shelters. “The issue of illegal posters is a challenge all over the country. In the city, the posters are removed and they reappear the very next day,” said Mthethwa. But Heather Rorick, chairwoman of Bulwer Safety and Urban Regeneration Forum, said she did not feel that the city was doing enough to clean up and stop the pasting of the illegal adverts. Rorick also said it was a pity that the clean-up campaigns were restricted to the city centre. “These illegal adverts are tacky and disrespectful and certainly lower the look of the area they are plastered in. Dangerous “Some are misleading and can be dangerous to those who respond to them. It is also costing the city thousands to clean up these horrid adverts because they are glued down. “When you try to remove them, they lift up the paint and leave a nasty mess on the robots, light poles and bus stops,” said Rorick. She said they had someone arrested in her area for plastering illegal adverts but had not heard of any other arrests or convictions for illegal adverts. The offender was taken to the police station and released on a warning, she said. Mthethwa said the city’s Radical Durban CBD Clean-Up and Safety Programme aimed to address cleanliness and safety-related issues, including crime and grime, illegal trading and derelict buildings. “Since the first phase was implemented, the programme has already started to show a remarkable impact to ensure safety and cleanliness around the CBD,” Mthethwa continued. She said that there was a budget to ensure that the project was sustainable and it included appointing consultants to support the implementation, appointing 200 metro police officers and vehicles, employing security staff to patrol the city and ensuring dedicated legal resources. Mthethwa also said that those who wanted to advertise around the city should seek approval first. Despite repeated attempts to get Durban Metro Police 
to comment, they had not responded to questions from the Daily News at the time of going to print. Daily News