The Saunter is a series of arts, crafts, food and activity trails that stretches from Durban to Hilton. The new initiative will launch on December 15. Despite the gloomy weather, exhibitors, including sculptors, artists and crafters, boarded the Umgeni Steam Train at Kloof Station on Sunday afternoon, to interact with fellow exhibitors and hear more about the seven routes on offer. These are Durban North, Westville, Pinetown and Mariannhill, Kloof, Hillcrest, Camperdown, Pietermaritzburg and Hilton. Around 75 artists and crafters and 145 role-players from selected restaurants and accommodation, will be a part of The Saunter. Visitors can expect anything from funky shoes to artworks and adventure sports like white river rafting, 4x4 trails and mountain biking. Once the website is launched, travellers can download the route maps. They can plan their day, weekend or week-long trips, but will need to book an appointment with exhibitors in advance. Cheryl Lefèvre, from the Gillitts Foundation, says the idea behind The Saunter is to boost Durban. She says the “out of the box” idea will showcase some of the city’s hidden gems, including tours of temples and museums. She also hopes that it will provide a platform for upcoming exhibitors. “Our aim is to draw more travellers to Durban and surrounding areas, and to boost the business of the exhibitors. If successful, the project will be a great economic driver in the province. People do not have to travel far to experience some of the best locations our province has to offer,” adds Lefèvre. Carl Roberts, a sculptor from Hillcrest, believes The Saunter has the potential to enhance local talent. Roberts, who owns 10 galleries, including in England and the US, creates sculptures from wood, bronze, bones and stone. “We will have to wait to see if this project works, but it has the potential to expose artists, crafters and establishments like hotels and restaurants,” he says. Botha’s Hill resident Johnny de Beer, who makes ceramic Nguni cows, horses and cheetahs, says although he has been in business over 40 years, not many people are aware of his craft. He is hoping that through The Saunter he will make a name for himself. Established artist Helena Vogelzang, from Kloof, is hoping her involvement will help her connect with like-minded artists. Vogelzang, who has created pieces for the National Heritage Monument in Pretoria, says Durban is lagging when it comes to providing art to domestic and local travellers. “We have a lot of artists with incredible talent just waiting to be seen. I am looking forward to interacting with people and sharing my work,” she says. Artist Siyabonga Sikosana, from Pietermaritzburg, is grateful that he is now able to show his township-inspired art to travellers. Daily News