Regional spokesperson Isabel van der Westhuizen said the October 10 storm resulted in severe damages to certain sections of the rail lines. “The South Coast corridor, particularly between Reunion and eManzimtoti, suffered the worst damage. The extent of this damage is such that trains can no longer travel on this section until repairs are done,” said Van der Westhuizen. She said the South Coast route was the most affected area, with lines in both directions suspended because foundations and embankments had been washed away. “The route between Zwelethu and KwaMnyandu Station on the way to uMlazi is also affected. One of the lines has been closed because the embankment has been undermined by shack dwellers who have dug into the embankment,” she said. “The route to Pinetown’s section between Bellair to Rossburgh is also reduced to a single line due to the washaway. The effect of these single lines simply translated to normal traffic capacity being halved.” Metrorail said the repair works were estimated to be completed by the beginning of February 2018, weather and circumstances permitting. Metrorail KZN had been providing buses after the determinations of the initial assessment to ferry commuters across this part of the line. It said the bus service was only used on a temporary basis for a few days rather than three whole months. “After the storm, our calculation to hire buses to transport the commuters amounted to just under R10m versus R2m return in fare revenue if all commuters continued. “This is not likely considering the inconveniences. It would therefore be reckless to allow this expense to continue with such little return.” The commuter service confirmed that they had suspended all bus services between Reunion and eManzimtoti due to financial unsustainability. “We are focusing all resources on restoring services rather than utilising resources for temporary arrangements,” said Van der Westhuizen. The Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) responsible for the Metrorail commuter services in the metropolitan areas and long-distance passenger rail services said the storm had set back the province’s R13 billion modernisation programme. The programme would see the installation of equipment such as new LED signals, axel counters for train movement, fibre optics for the train communication system among other things. Prasa said it was in the final stages of completing the Pinetown to Durban section which would see 24km of new rail signalling handed over to Metrorail KZN to operate in 
December when the storm struck. Daily News