Durban - Residents who rely on the Albert Falls Dam for their water supply could be without water come February next year as water levels have now reached 20 percent% capacity, posing the risk of a partial drought with long-term effects. The Albert Falls Dam supplies areas such as Durban North, uMhlanga, Verulam, KwaMashu, Ntuzuma, Newlands, Westville, Reservoir Hills, KwaDabeka, Clermont, Pinetown, Queensburgh, Chatsworth, uMlazi and parts of Folweni. Shami Harichunder, Umgeni Water spokesperson, said Umgeni Water was a fully integrated system, meaning that the five dams and a weir in it support, augment or supplement the resources of one another through transfers. He further said the amount of water distributed daily to the eThekwini, Msunduzi and uMgungundlovu municipalities daily  depended on the combined amount of water resources available. “At the most recent calculation, the combined water resources in storage amounted to 50 percent%. Combined water resources required to meet the full demand of these Water Services Authorities – ie unrestricted supply and use – is at least 75 percent%,” said Harichunder. “At times of water shortages, as is currently the case in the Umgeni system, reduction in portable water production and reduction in demand by Water Services Authorities are the most effective strategies to ensure that water available lasts until the system reaches an acceptable operational level again of a minimum of 75 percent%,” he said. When are water restrictions likely to be lifted? “The entire system has to reach at least 75 percent% before easing or lifting of restrictions becomes a serious consideration. It is important to note that if restrictions were not implemented, Albert Falls Dam would have reached dead storage by now and accompanying difficulties of water shortages exacerbated,” he explained Harichunder. “Umgeni Water has reduced potable water production by 15 percent %, and restrictions of 15 percent% are currently being implemented in parts of eThekwini, all of Msunduzi and all of uMgungundlovu. These restrictions will remain, including during the coming festive season,” he said. “If sufficient rains do not occur to improve the level of Albert Falls Dam, release from Midmar will be discussed in order  to stabilise the situation. Releases from Midmar will have to be accompanied by water transfer from Spring Grove Dam to stabilise the level of Midmar. No deterioration has been noticed yet in the quality of Albert Falls water. However, deterioration could occur if this dam reaches 15 percen%. As stated, poor water quality results in increased cost of treatment,” said Harichunder. Tozi Mthethwa, eThekwini Municipality’s head of communications, said the city had put measures in place to help avoid a possible water crisis which could see residents whose water supply comes from the Albert Falls Dam go without water. “Since the beginning of the drought we have implemented many strategies to minimise the impact of water shortage. We installed water restrictors, shut down water supply to allow reservoirs to fill up and educated the public about  water conservation,” said Mthethwa. “The installation of water restrictors and the shutting down of water supply to refill reservoirs have been some of our most effective interventions. The city continues to encourage residents to use water sparingly by reducing the amount of water they use per day and reusing water  whenever possible,” said Mthethwa. Mthethwa appealed to the public to use water sparingly and report any leaks to the municipality immediately. “There is regular communication internally  from the Water Unit encouraging Council Units to conserve water. For example, City operations such as high-pressure street cleaning are done using grey water. “This is a clear demonstration that the city is committed to saving water and that it leads by example,” she said South African weather services predicted 30% chance of rainfall on Friday with the much needed 60% rainfall expected on Saturday and light rain following on Sunday. Daily News