Durban - The vessel traffic controllers’ (VTC) task is to source, extract and document accurate and current port control-related information and to furnish this information to the port community and marine services role-players. They also analyse and capture relevant data, such as arrival/departure times, shifting movements, manual electronic systems (logbook), and disseminate relevant information. They answer and screen phone calls from port users, both internal and external, and keep records of all shipping-
related information. Durban deputy harbour master Justin Adams, who has 20 years in the marine industry and four years in his current position, spoke proudly of how his team - located at the Ocean Terminal - co-ordinated events in the port during the recent storm which lashed Durban and surrounding areas. Ashwin Maharajh, a former fireman, has been at the helm for 10 years. He said the beautiful sunrises and sunsets, whale sightings and view of the city and beaches were a good perk of the job. Maharajh works alongside three m en and four women in the team. Among his tasks is flipping the switches that turn on the lights in the harbour mouth to indicate if a ship is leaving or entering. Fundisiwe Dlikithela, 30, has been a vessel controller for eight years, controlling the movement of small boats and yachts in the harbour. “We have calm days, and some days can be hectic. I am always curious to know what’s happening in the harbour. Anyone in the harbour has to talk to us and get permission to move around,” she said. Charmaine Ndlovu, 37, has spent nine years as a vessel controller, five as a senior. The mother of three is the decision-maker on the team. She co-ordinates rescues, speaks to the pilot boats and co-ordinates any movement in the port. “We can move four vessels in two hours, based on resources. It is nice to know that I am contributing to the economy of the country. The more ships we bring in, the more goods and products are traded,” Ndlovu said. Sifiso Memezi, a father of two who has been a vessel controller for seven years, said the recent storm was a good challenge to them and it showed their level of dedication, knowledge, experience and expertise. “The traffic in the harbour relied on us to help them navigate when visibility was down to zero in the port. We had six radio channels open, set up for different scenarios to minimise confusion over the radios and prioritise the emergencies. It was a well-co-ordinated event,” Memezi said. Kashri Moonsamy, 40, mother of two girls, holds an important position as the berth planning manager. She has to take into consideration the size of the ship and how it should be docked at the berth. In 15 years she has worked herself up from the help desk to the VTC centre as a planning manager. Initially, she wanted to be a chartered accountant but was introduced to the job by her father, a retired fireman. “It would be nice if the maritime job scope was introduced to high school children. There is so much work in the maritime field as a career option,” she said. Geraldine Govender, 35, has been a VTC for 10 years. She said it was an adrenalin rush to see the action from the tower. She was also motivated by the views and sights, including the pilots being lowered down to the ships. Zamo Duma, 34, father of one, has been a VTC assistant since 2012. He said the days were never the same and one had to be ready for challenges. “In one hour it can be quiet; the next hour can be hectic.
I approach each day differently,” Duma said. Maharajh said they plan port operations ahead and co-ordinate to perfection the anchorage of ships outside the harbour. They have to check if a vessel is safe from disease or hazards and has the necessary documentation before allowing it to enter. They have to contend with winds, which Maharajh said can be a challenge to them. “During the storm, ships were breaking their lines, but through Adams’ experience, we were able to tell the ship captains to drop a starboard anchor or go astern to contain the wind movement. We did that for three hours before we could get pilots on board the ships. Although it was a team effort, the heroes were the tugboat captains, who left their berth in conditions with no visibility. They held 330-metre fully laden cargo ships in rough conditions,” Maharajh said. The Bluff Port control tower itself took a battering from the strong winds, sustaining damage to the cowl, which rotates to point in the direction the wind is blowing. It moves mechanically after taking readings from instrumentation. Daily News