This allegation was made by an Education Department official who was among other officials gathered at the heavily guarded murder scene where 11 people were killed in what is believed to have been a taxi violence-related killing. Klipriver Taxi Association deputy chairman Muzikayifani Ngobese and his four heavily armed bodyguards died at the scene when gunmen opened fire on their double cab vehicle. The department official, who did not want to be identified, said the driver lost control of the vehicle and crashed into a minibus taxi. He said he believed the taxi boss and his bodyguards were ambushed and that there had been a spotter before the shooting. “Look, I believe that this was an ambush. There could have been a spotter because how else would the killers know that their target was on the way down this road? “The bodyguards drove up this same road to fetch the taxi boss from his home. When they returned on the same road, the gunmen were lying in the bushes.  “When they hit the double cab transporting the taxi boss and bodyguards, it lost control and hit the taxi at speed. The gunmen walked closer and finished off the victims in the double cab. Two cars picked the gunmen along the road and vanished,” said the official. He said it was not clear how many people were in the taxi, but the victims in the taxi were teachers at Matiwane Primary and Masoyi Secondary schools in the area. The department will visit the schools with psychologists to offer counselling. The dead teachers were identified as Khetho Thwala, ZA Dlamini, Boniswe Ziqubu, RS Shabalala, Mavimbela and Hlatshwayo. It took the forensics team more than eight hours to clear the scene. Relatives and family members walked a long distance in the scorching sun from the N11 to the crime scene on the Matiwaneskop Road. Heavily armed police, including members of the Tactical Response Team and forensics combed the area. It was just after 5pm when the bodies were moved to mortuary trucks and vans. Thwala’s aunt Stompie Khoza broke down when she got the scene.  After waiting hours at the scene to identify her relative, she was told to go to the Ladysmith police station where the bodies were to be identified. “When my brother’s son left for work this morning we did not expect to hear this. He was a hard worker and he had no business in the taxi industry. “Why did they kill him? He was still young, only to be killed by murderers who only care about making money at the expense of innocent lives. “I believe that this is some feud over taxi routes and people have fallen victims in this war among taxi bosses. Many people have been killed when the taxi people attack one another,” Khoza said Blessed Gwala, the IFP provincial spokesperson on Community Safety and Liaison, called for a high-powered task team to investigate taxi killings in the province. He described Ngobese as a respected community leader and expressed shock at the manner in which he was killed. He said the fact that Ngobese had so many bodyguards with him was an indication that there were serious threats made on his life.  “We are very concerned about taxi violence in KwaZulu-Natal. There are a few trigger-happy and stubborn elements responsible for the instability in the taxi industry and these individuals must be isolated. “We must make a difference between ‘chance-takers’, the hit 
men and those earning a legitimate living by driving taxis,” said Gwala. DA KZN leader Zwakele Mncwango said: “The use of violence to resolve disputes over taxi permits and routes is outrageous and the perpetrators must be found, convicted and sent to prison. “What makes the killings extremely distressing is the death of innocent people who were just going about their daily tasks. “These people were not guilty of any wrongdoing and yet they have been lost to their families.” He called on Transport Community Safety and Liaison MEC Mxolisi Kaunda to “urgently ensure the SAPS are equipped and capable to deal with these incidents”. Last week, Kaunda met both taxi associations in an attempt to end the violence. A team of experts was deployed to the scene to begin investigations. Kaunda yesterday instructed Department of Transport officials to explore all legal options to intervene and act decisively to end the killings. Premier Willies Mchunu condemned the killing and said he would today receive a “comprehensive briefing” from Transport, Community Safety and Liaison MEC Mxolisi Kaunda regarding interventions towards stability in the area. Daily News