Ithala group acting chief executive Themba Mathe said yesterday that the programme talked to the core of the development finance institution’s mandate of focusing on townships and rural areas. “One of our strategic objectives is to have developmental partnerships since we do not all have a lot of resources. If we come together we can leverage off one another and achieve more,” said Mathe. This partnership would see a minimum of 25 containerised tyre fitment centres established throughout the province creating 100 jobs, Mathe said. “The allocated funding is targeted at the supply, branding and fitment of the containers. The development of successful entrepreneurs is very important to our national discourse as it is a critical element necessary to grow our economy and achieving the National Development Plan targets of creating 11million jobs,” said Mathe. The Dunlop branded containers converted to do business are said to cost R160 000. They include a compressor, tyre changer, jacks, patches, gaithers, wheel weights and R50 000 of merchandise payable in 30 days. The entrepreneurs are pooled from TVET colleges and local economic development databases before screening. Once successful they are trained in running the technical tyre fitment business. Ithala said that it will be allocating R4.1million for this programme. KZN’s Small Business Growth Enterprise executive, Lungile Kuhlase, said this programme was targeted at the youth and women who were hardest hit by unemployment. “Ours is to nurture and sustain small business. While start-up businesses do get funding, they tend to fail because of lack of support when they need market access and financial understanding which we provide,” she said. Kuhlase said that they usually experienced challenges with municipalities taking longer to issue permits for the business to operate in municipal areas. “We do have a relationship with the municipality, but for them to give these young and excited entrepreneurs the actual trading permits to operate takes a while. Those are followed by Eskom which is also a process,” Kuhlase said. Sumitomo Rubber SA business development director Yvette Govender said the programme targeted entrepreneurs in townships looking for opportunities to deal with tyre manufacturers. “We wanted to formalise the informal township businesses and create employment opportunities by driving entrepreneurship,” said Govender. Govender said they wanted the container tyre fitment centres to sell brand new tyres. “There were challenges to this as some of the entrepreneurs were not skilled in this technical trade. They also did not have credit facilities and business skills. “Ours as an iconic brand with over 120 years was to up-skill them in that regard thereby making  the brand available to all consumers.” The programme has now seen the establishment of a total of five tyre fitment centres in Ladysmith, Eshowe, Esikhaleni, Madadeni and Escourt. Daily News