The child brides, aged 12 to 17, are being sold to “lascivious” men by poverty-stricken parents, who cannot afford to feed them and consider them a drain on their resources. “If a family has six children and there is a daughter the family cannot support, it is a way of getting rid of her,” said Professor Deidre Byrne, chairperson of the Unisa-Africa Development Programme which was set up to promote girls’ rights. Instead of treasuring their daughters, there were parents who viewed them as sources of revenue, Byrne said. A social worker with the Open Door Crisis Centre in Pinetown spoke of one poor rural KwaZulu-Natal family which had married off four of their underage daughters for money. “If no one at home is working, it is a form of income,” she said. “It is not like the children have a choice, either.” Asked what the going rate for a young bride was, she said: “It depends, but R4000 is a lot of money (if you have nothing).” Byrne was explaining the shock statistics about underage marriages in the country that have been compiled by Statistics SA which reveal that there are more than 91000 girls between 12-17 who are married, divorced, separated, widowed or living with a partner as husband and wife, the latter being the majority. And KZN ranks the highest, with 25205 young girls in the grouping, with Gauteng second with 15929 from a population of three million nationwide. The eThekwini region has the highest number of underage girls in legal marriages (including customary and traditional) in the country, with the figure standing at 849. There are also 477 KZN underage girls living with a man as husband and wife, and almost 5000 who are widowed, 627 of them in eThekwini. Byrne says that according to the 2015 Africa Index, nine of the world’s 10 countries with the highest rates of child marriage are in Africa. And while the South African statistics are lower than the rest of Africa, “the fact that child brides are a reality in South Africa, a country with one of the world’s best constitutions, is frightening”. Byrne says the legal age of marriage is 18, but if both a girl’s parents give their permission, she can marry younger. Consent The conundrum is that the age of sexual consent in South Africa is 16, so men could be charged with statutory rape. However, having been paid, parents are not likely to lay charges against their son-in-law. Byrne points out that patriarchy, reinforced by cultural beliefs and practices, values the life of a son far higher than that of a daughter because of a boy carrying the family name, continuing the family business and contributing to the home. Referring to the number of underage girls living with an older man as a married couple, with or without parent’s approval, Byrne said this was a girl seeking financial security. Thora Mansfield, of the Open Door Crisis Centre, said this was known as the “blesser” syndrome, where an older man showered a young girl with gifts, before moving on to the next girl. “It’s very widespread: it’s another form of abuse.” Byrne said: “These appalling statistics only highlight the need for placing girls’ education at the top of the agenda.” It was vital to keep girls in school to break the cycle of abuse and child marriages. “As a society, we owe it to each African girl-child to protect them from marriage, violence and sexual abuse, to empower them with knowledge and give them access to a life of dignity, opportunity and prosperity,” she said. The Unisa-AGDP programme was a joint initiative of Unisa’s Gender Institute, the Thabo Mkeki Africa Leadership Institute and the AU. It was designed to identify, develop and promote emerging African female leaders, equipping them with the knowledge of how to address issues facing women and children. A scholarship for high school pupils will allow girls from impoverished areas the chance to study through Unisa. Daily News