This came as the eThekwini Municipality makes good on its promise to crack down on lawlessness in the city and strictly enforce its nuisance by-laws. While some praised the police for enforcing the by-laws, others believed the police were too harsh and should concentrate on more serious issues such as drugs and robberies. Car guard Donovan Pillay, 49, of Westcliff, received two fines in three days. He was fined R200 under the municipal nuisance by-law for begging in a public space.  Pillay, a car guard for five years, said he thought it was a joke when a metro policewoman approached him at the Westcliff Centre on Florence Nightingale Drive.  “She asked me if I had a badge or card to prove that I was a car guard. I don’t have one, but everyone knows me here. I did not argue with her.” Pillay, who has two children, said he worked as a linen and blanket salesman for many years before the business closed down. He was then employed at a printing company as a casual worker.  Pillay recently took to guarding cars at shopping complexes to earn a living.  “I earn between R50 to R60 a day, seven days a week between 7.30am and 5.30pm. The customers have grown fond of me and I am not doing anything wrong. I prevent cars from being stolen and people stealing out of the cars.  My money goes for bread, milk and utility bills. Life is a hustle. Car guards have become easy targets,” Pillay said.  City spokesperson Tozi Mthethwa said by-laws prevented people from begging whether by gesture, word or otherwise. Shop owners fumed on hearing of Pillay’s fine. They said he was an honest worker who not only guided cars in and out of traffic bays, but also helped customers with their parcels and ensured that cars safely re-entered traffic.   The shop owners said DVD salesmen were the real problem and called for the police to rather arrest them. “They force you to buy the DVDs. They show elderly women adult movies and force them to view the disgusting pictures. The DVD guys have camouflaged themselves by wearing reflector vests and pretending to be guards,” a shop owner said.  Other shop owners said police knew where all the drug-peddling and gambling took place, but failed to act. They called on the police to get rid of drug dealers in the area. Metro police spokesperson Senior Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad said car guards were not legitimate, did not belong to a recognised reputable organisation or association, and often broke by-laws.  “They are not allowed to control traffic or assist with helping people park. They often let motorists park illegally and force them to hand over money meant for municipal parking meters.  “When police place tickets under windscreen wipers, the car guards remove them. We have complaints that some of them are nuisances to the public,” Sewpersad said.  Daily News