For Ward 103 senior citizens in KwaNyuswa, north of Durban, the event was scheduled for last Wednesday, but  never took place. Mthetheleli Sibisi, the area’s independent councillor, said the event had been postponed three times. Sibisi alleged that he was told by the municipality to book the venue for Wednesday, November 22. “On that Wednesday I went to the ground in the morning and there was no tent or chairs. There was a group of elderly people and I apologised to them and asked them to go back home. “On Thursday I heard that the event was postponed to Friday. On that Friday I hired 20 minibus taxis to ferry the elderly to the event, only for the city not to deliver the tent, chairs and all that was promised for the people, who were transported back home empty-handed,” Sibisi said. He said Maqhutshana Secondary School chairman, Mdu Ngcobo, told him that a man had approached the school principal about using the school ground to hold the event yesterday. Ngcobo said he warned the principal not to grant permission as only the ward councillor had the power to make such a request. Permission “You can’t have everyone making requests for (use of) school premises. I told the principal that he should report the matter to the police, just in case. Overlooking the councillor creates confusion and unnecessary tension in the community,” 
Ngcobo said. DA councillor Sharon Hoosen said the city was not prepared for this event and that, so far, it had been a “total embarrassment” to the city. Meanwhile, an elderly woman in uMlazi said there was no respect or order in the manner in which senior citizens were treated yesterday at their party. “The tents and toilets were brought in around 12 pm. There was no water and we waited until after 2pm. Some people were brought in on wheelbarrows only to wait for hours before they could be served. These parcels were not worth the strain some people had to endure. “This was not the Christmas as promised,” said the woman, who asked to remain anonymous. Mayoral spokesperson Mthunzi Gumede said in most cases arrangements were going according to plan. He could not comment on specific programmes, saying 
he would need to get details from those in charge at the venues. “There were some challenges with the venues and date- changing, but all else went well,” he said. Daily News