Durban - The KwaZulu-Natal Provincial South African Police Service has shared a detailed report with the Portfolio Committee on Police a report in relation to challenges around the province, especially in the Glebelands Hostel. Francois Beukman, chairperson of the Portfolio Committee on Police, said the committee was aware of the increased deployments of the Visible Policing Unit in uMlazi, especially Glebelands Hostel. Personnel from units such as Public Order Policing, Metro Police and the National Office make up the deployments. Beukman has said that the committee had highlighted the need to strengthen the cluster management system in uMlazi, with the view that strong leadership is important in actively fighting crime at the hostel and in the area. The Committee has welcomed the assurance that there is a team of eight full-time members who are dedicated in investigating the cases at Glebelands Hostel, moreover, the Committee has re-emphasised the need to adequately resource the team in order to make their jobs easier. “Intelligence is of importance if the police are to succeed in reducing instances of murder at the hostel. We urge you to increase collaboration between the SAPS units in dealing with crime at the hostel,” said Beukman. The committee is concerned by reports that the recent murders at the hostel happen in dark areas and rooms. They also recommended that Nomusa Dube-Ncube, the MEC for Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs in KZN, should intervene and address issues of bed allocations and administration at the hostel. However, the Committee is concerned that the recommendation has not been fully implemented. “The Committee welcomes the re-enlistment of seven detectives and the members have resumed service on the 1st of November. The Committee has re-emphasised the need to continuously monitor the vacancy rate within the detective services in the province,” Beukman continued. “The availability of vehicles has also been highlighted as a priority area by the Committee. The 83.38% vehicle availability for KwaZulu-Natal remains a concern as it represents a marginal increase from the 82.4% availability when the Committee visited the province,” Beukman said. He said the Committee will continue to monitor the implementation of recommendations made following their KZN visit. Daily News