Ashokumar is alleged to have posted a demeaning photograph of a heavily pregnant black woman having an ultrasound, and the image shows a gorilla as the baby. The photo, posted last Monday, has angered the company’s black employees who said the Durban branch management did not take the matter seriously, and that Ashokumar did not show remorse when he was told that his action had offended his colleagues. Ashokumar told the Daily News on Tuesday that the photo was sent to him by an unknown person via WhatsApp, and a couple of days later he accidentally posted it on the company WhatsApp group. On Wednesday, PG Glass marketing director Bernice Bailey said they were “distraught” that the incident happened in one of their branches, and by the manner in which it was handled.  Bailey said the company did not condone any form of discrimination or racism in its network.  She said the company’s KwaZulu-Natal metro regional manager, Logan Govindaraj, did not handle the matter appropriately. “He should have acted swiftly and in a much more professional manner. On Wednesday I had a quick chat with the human resources manager and they assured me that action against the employee in question is under way.  “Our social media policy makes it clear that employees should be mindful of what they post, even on their personal accounts. If a post brings the company’s name into disrepute, action will be taken against the perpetrator,” she said. She said the company prided itself on its values that were developed by the employees.  “Three of these values, in particular, are care, respect and integrity. We have very clear policies and procedures in place to deal with incidents through our grievance and disciplinary process. We also have a social media communication policy which gives guidelines as to how group chats should be conducted.  “This matter is being taken very seriously and I can confirm that the disciplinary process has started,” she said. Human Settlements MEC Ravi Pillay said the circulation of the “racist” image on social media should be harshly condemned.  “In this instance, it is deeply offensive and personal. There has to be consequences by the employer and other bodies such as the Human Rights Commission. This type of racism enrages the many South Africans from all communities and backgrounds working hard to build unity and social cohesion.  “I commend the Daily News for the prominent coverage of this story. Perpetrators must know that they will be named and shamed as the first of several consequences,” Pillay said. Ashwin Trikamjee, president of the SA Hindu Maha Sabha, said he was horrified by the incident.  “I cannot believe that people have not learnt that racism is not accepted. Mistake or no mistake, this act should be condemned in the strongest terms. The company must take action against the employee. Some people need to learn that as soon as they start to become reckless and generalise, they must be held accountable,” he said. Mdumiseni Ntuli, the ANC provincial spokesperson, said his party advocated that racism was criminal and should carry a jail term. “It must carry a jail term because we are where we are because of racism. This company must set an example and show that it is not a haven for racists. If they don’t deal with this racist in the harshest form, then others will think there’s nothing wrong with being racist,” Ntuli said. DA leader Zwakele Mncwango appealed to everyone to be sensitive to issues of race. “We must consider where we are coming from, all of us; black, Indian, white or coloured. The scary part is that there is tension between black South Africans and Indians, especially here in Durban. “The existence of groups with negative sentiments against Indians doesn’t help the situation. I’d be very happy if in that WhatsApp group some of those who were unhappy about the post were Indians,” he said. - Additional reporting by Se-Anne Rall Daily News