“Women are just as capable as men and it’s just the mindset of society that inhibits women from bringing out their best and their strengths,” she said. Banipersadh competed with 24 men. Thrillseeker Offroad spokesperson  Andre Karrim said there were eight teams of three vehicles that took on three challenges. Baniparsadh, who drives a Toyota Hilux 2.8 GD-6, won the Thrillseeker Offroad 4x4 team challenge with her team, the Monster Machines. Also in her team were her brother, Adheel Baniparsadh, who drives a Mercedes-Benz Gelande wagon, Vicky Naidoo in a Subaru Forester XT Prodrive, and the support crew member, Amir Baniparsadh. Ashi Baniparsadh’s interest in 4x4s and trucks began at an early age because of her family’s involvement in a construction business. Baniparsadh said she had taken a keener interest in the past six years because she had to use 4x4s to access construction sites. “I look forward to more women who have an interest in off-road adventure becoming more involved in the sport. I am a goal-driven individual, businesswoman and professional who always strives for perfection in life and anything I do, including the 4x4 obstacle course,” she said. Baniparsadh, an expert on public transport economics, said the event was an exciting challenge bringing together 4x4 enthusiasts, each having vehicles with varying capacities in terms of engine and drive-train performance and suspensions, and each offering varying approach and departure angles and wheelbases. It was interesting to learn about the capability, advantages and disadvantages of each unique combination, she said. “The adrenalin rush on the dirt drag race is cool. The obstacle course requires strategy and skill to ensure that you can safely steer your vehicle out of a tight spot without damage to it,” she said. Karrim said the drag race was part of three challenges. Team Monster Machines won first place in the entire event, out of nine teams. Team Landy Auto (LAB) was second and Thrill Seeker (Andre Karrim and Nicolas Pirthipal) placed third. Karrim said they hosted two competitions a year, which were aired on IgnitionTV (DStv channel 189). The three challenges were a dirt drag 80m in which the 4x4 vehicles go head-to-head, a time attack relay in which the 4x4 drivers steer their vehicles around a track and hand over a beacon to their teammate, and the final challenge was an obstacle course. “It is an exciting and fun event. The feedback we get from fans is incredible. Fans stand on the side cheering their team on. “Each driver has a different vision and style to overcome the challenges. The important aspect is not to get stuck in the course.” Daily News