The men were part of a gang of five that allegedly committed a house robbery in eManzimtoti on the South Coast. Tony Lokker, of ET Rapid Response, said the men allegedly held up a domestic worker before ransacking 
the house. “They used firearms during the incident and after taking a few household items, they fled the scene. “A few minutes later, the same gang is believed to have tried to commit a robbery at another house. They failed,” he said. Lokker said his team was alerted to the incidents via the community policing forum network and responded. “We gave chase and followed the car along the N2. The car then crashed at the intersection of the R102 and M28 in the Duffs Road area,” he said. The men allegedly got out of their silver VW Polo and fired shots at the officers pursuing them. Apprehend Lokker said they managed to apprehend three men, while two more fled. One of the men taken into custody sustained a bullet wound during the exchange of gunfire. Officers recovered household items in the car, believed to have been taken in the first robbery. Police also found unlicensed firearms and ammunition. A case has been registered at the Greenwood Park police station. The men face a number of charges including attempted murder, house robbery and possession of suspected 
stolen property. They are due to appear in court soon. The men are believed to be behind a number of house robberies in the eManzimtoti area, as well as in Durban North. Last week two houses were robbed on each of Wednesday and Thursday, all within minutes of each other. In all the incidents, gangs managed to derail the property gates before entering the homes. In a separate incident, eight armed men stormed the home of the Indian consul-general last Thursday. Here, too, the men gained entry to the home of Dr Shashank Vikram after derailing the gate. Once inside, the men reportedly held up Vickram’s family. They ransacked the house and made off with jewellery. Berea police are investigating a case of house robbery. Daily News