Durban - KwaZulu-Natal is celebrating the graduation of the province's first-ever black female neurosurgeon. Dr Nomusa Shezi (32) is the first black African woman to graduate in KZN as a neurosurgeon. Indumathie Moodley, Media Relations Officer at the University of KwaZulu-Natal, said this was announced by the Discipline of Neurology in the School of Clinical Medicine at UKZN which hopes Shezi’s accomplishment will encourage other young people - particularly young women - to pursue careers in the field of Medicine. Moodley said Shezi completed her undergraduate studies at UKZN in 2008. She is a Medical Officer based at Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital in Durban. Now she is a qualified neurosurgeon following her recent graduation and obtaining a Fellowship from the College of Neurosurgery, under the College of Medicine South Africa. “Growing up during the height of the HIV epidemic in the late 1990s, Shezi’s dream was to one day be in a position to give sick people hope and nurse them back to good health. The trailblazer’s dream is now reality,” said Moodley. Shezi recalls growing up during the rise of HIV: “I think growing up amid the HIV epidemic and having parents who did not shield me from the reality of what was happening, in some way urged a desire in me to help - to find a way to be a source of hope in my country.” “I have always wanted to be a doctor. I remember writing an essay in Grade 3 about finding a cure for HIV,” continued Shezi. She was born and raised in Pietermaritzburg and attributes most of her success to hard work and the influence, guidance and support of her parents, she said she fell in love with neurosurgery after reading about the exploits of Dr Ben Carson in the United States, who separated conjoined twins. “As a doctor, I enjoy being able to help people when they are most vulnerable. Nothing is more rewarding than a patient coming into the hospital in severe pain or with a marked disability and after intervention and rehabilitation, seeing them smile because they can now walk without pain or they can return to work and lead a normal life,” she continued. South Africa only has five Black African female neurosurgeons, with the first only qualifying in 2013. “We are still working in an environment where surgery in general is considered a “man’s” field. So, neurosurgery is an even harder field to crack for women,” she said.
 “My long-term plan is to create and be a part of a functional neurosurgery Unit in KwaZulu-Natal. I would like to build a team that would treat movement disorders, severe epilepsy and perform awake surgery. This would not just save the government millions of rand on life-long treatment, but more importantly, provide quality of life to many patients in this province,” she concluded. For now, she hopes her achievement inspires others to follow in her footsteps.
  Daily News