This is despite Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba insisting nuclear was unaffordable. Even former Eskom chief executive Brian Dames told Parliament two weeks ago that when they researched nuclear, they were frightened by the figures. While Dames did not disclose the figures to the inquiry into state capture, he said nuclear was unaffordable. But Zuma said nuclear would be procured and there was no contradiction between new Energy Minister David Mahlobo and Gigaba. He said the two ministers were basically talking about when this could be implemented. Zuma also said he would soon appoint a national commissioner for the police. The SAPS has been without a permanent commissioner since October 2015, when then commissioner Riah Phiyega was suspended. Her contract was not extended by Police Minister Fikile Mbalula when it expired in July. Lesetja Mothibi has been acting in the position since another acting police commissioner, Khomotso Phahlane, was removed from the post. Zuma also told Parliament during the question-and-answer session on Thursday that he would appoint a commission of inquiry into state capture. He said he had been blocked by lawyers from appointing it until a court case with the DA was finalised. The matter was heard in the North Gauteng High Court last Wednesday, where the DA is trying to force him to appoint the commission. But Zuma is challenging the findings of former public protector Thuli Madonsela on the appointment of the commission of inquiry. “I am ready after the court judgment. I will establish it immediately. We will prove liars and truths. It is coming, my dear,” he told Cope MP Deidre Carter. “The commission will investigate corruption in the country. Even those who are corrupt are pointing fingers at others and saying they are corrupt. The truth will be found,” he said. Zuma also took a swipe at Parliament for setting up several portfolio committees to investigate state capture. He said it could not be correct that there was a parallel process in Parliament to investigate state capture when he had said he would set up a commission of inquiry. Zuma also denied links to businessman Roy Moodley, and that the latter paid millions of rands into his account when he began his presidency in 2009. In his book, The President’s Keepers, journalist Jacques Pauw detailed how Moodley had paid Zuma a salary of R1m a month for a period of four months. This was at the same time that Zuma was being paid his own salary as head of state. Daily News