They expect that electronic bingo terminals will be installed in their bingo halls early next year, with some hoping it will be by Christmas. “This is long overdue and it has been very frustrating considering that electronic bingo has been available in several other provinces for years,” said one Durban-based stakeholder, who did not want to be named. “We have spent hundreds of millions of rand on buildings that have been standing empty. We could have been creating employment and paying taxes in that time.” Electronic bingo will now be able to be played in the province after the KZN Legislature passed an amendment to the Gaming and Betting Act, which changes the definition of bingo and allows bingo licencees the chance to offer the game in a wholly electronic format - in addition to paper - using some form of electronic bingo terminal or any other approved device. Twenty-two bingo licences were granted in KZN in 2009, and seven of them are currently operational and running paper bingo. Now, they can also offer electronic bingo, as can the remaining 15 who have not implemented their licences and opened their doors yet. Four - at eManzimtoti’s Galleria, the Pavilion, Gateway and the South Coast - are operated by Galaxy, two are operated in Ballito Junction and Malvern by Gold Rush, and the seventh is in Ladysmith and operated by Poppy Ice. Sites Allan Scott, the business development director of Gold Rush, said the KZN Gaming and Betting Board did not want all the bingo halls concentrated around the Durban area, and the other bingo sites that are still to open are in Margate, Scottburgh, Pietermaritzburg, Empangeni and Vryheid. The electronic bingo equipment had to be ordered, and that would take time, he said. While the equipment is manufactured in South Africa, the components come from overseas. And the equipment has to be approved by the KZN Gaming and Betting Board, and sent to laboratories to check that the machines do what they are supposed to. The new layout of the bingo halls - allowing for the equipment - must also be given the official nod. The number of electronic bingo terminals will be limited to 150 in each bingo hall. The bingo operators have faced years of opposition, protests and, at one stage, provincial government opposition. There were also public hearings. The main opposition, they said, came from casinos, and Scott said it was a fallacy that bingo was a threat to the casinos. It was a different market and there was enough business to go around for everyone, he said. “And the casinos can also offer bingo: it is in their licence,” he said. The total gross gaming revenue in the country for last year was R26.26billion, with casinos accounting for R18.6bn; sports betting R4.4bn; limited payout machines accounting for R2.36bn; and bingo R936million, “the lowest gross gaming revenue”. Vivian Reddy, chairman of the Sibaya Casino and Entertainment Kingdom, said casinos had spent billions of rand creating world-class facilities, hotels, conference centres, while bingo halls were in places like shopping malls and were competing directly with casinos. “We are going to be watching electronic bingo very carefully,” he said. Daily News