On Thursday, ANC councillor and Youth League deputy secretary in the Moses Mabhida Region Sthembiso Mhlongo became the latest victim after he was shot at his home in Howick. On Monday, Mhlongo’s colleague, Lungisani Mnguni, a former branch chairperson in the Moses Mabhida Region, was gunned down while driving his bakkie. Mhlongo had spoken to the media and condemned
Mnguni’s murder. The Moerane Commission had heard that almost 90 people had been killed in what are believed to be politically-motivated crimes linked to the Glebelands hostel since 2014, with no arrests being made. KZN violence monitor Mary de Haas said the Moerane Commission had not made a ­difference in the politically-related murders in KZN. “In fact it has served to ­expose those who are anti-corruption and made them targets. “The problem is who is going to be targeted next. There is no pattern to the way these murders are being carried out, with some of the victims being whistle-blowers, but others not linked to anti-corruption activities.” De Haas said the fact that police had not solved a single political killing since the beginning of last year was a major concern. “Nobody feels safe. The hidden casualty in all of this is democracy.” Both Mhlongo and Mnguni had been elected by their ANC branches as delegates to the ANC national conference next month in Johannesburg. Several murders, especially involving ANC leaders, including former ANCYL secretary-general Sindiso Magaqa, had taken place since the enquiry started in March. Other known murders include those of Umzimkhulu Municipal councillor Mduduzi Shibase and municipal speaker Khaya Thobela. Richmond municipal manager Sibusiso Sithole was killed in July. Commission spokesperson Solo Mdledle could not say how many murders had happened since the inquiry started at the end of March. “We are still waiting for the statistics from the police and we cannot say how many murders have taken place,” he said. Asleep Mhlongo was asleep with his wife and 7-year-old son when he was startled by banging on his the door at about 2am. His cousin said the men claimed to be police. Mhlongo, who was married in March, opened the door of his house at Mpophomeni Township in Howick and was shot twice. He died later at Hilton Private Hospital outside Pietermaritzburg. He was 34 years old. Mhlongo was also a proportional representative (PR) councillor in Umgungundlovu District Municipality and branch secretary of the ANC in his ward. DA KZN leader Zwakele Mncwango described 2017 as a dark year for the ANC owing to the killing of its leaders. Daily News