He remembers how he was made to sign his dismissal documents with his hands cuffed in front of him. Upon transfer to Westville Prison, he found prisoners waiting for the “male nurse who raped a mentally ill patient”. Buthelezi had made headlines and he was all people talked about - even those behind bars were disgusted. “I was assaulted by prisoners and made to parade naked. “The story was all over the news. People had already found me guilty. I was even crucified by my employer. The Health MEC, Sibongiseni Dhlomo, announced in the media that he had fired me. “All I wanted to do was to die right there. It was like people had buried me alive,” he said. In a TV interview soon after Buthelezi was arrested, Dhlomo said: “The man should consider himself fired. We had already sent him a suspension letter.” Dhlomo also said his department was to approach international bodies of nurses to prevent him from ever again working as a nurse. Buthelezi spent one month at Westville Prison before he was released on bail. The next two years were a nightmare as Buthelezi and his lawyer, representing him on a pro bono basis, went through the trial “I had nothing. I had lost everything and could not afford to pay a lawyer. There were times when I wished to commit suicide, but I had to stay alive and prove my innocence for my daughter’s sake.” Evidence by a doctor who examined the 28-year-old  female complainant testified that she was mentally unstable, had perceptional disturbance, was suicidal and suffered from delusional manic episodes. In August, the Ntuzuma Magistrate's Court found Buthelezi not guilty of rape. The DNA results came back negative and there were no signs of penetration. Buthelezi was acquitted, but his freedom was not a celebration. He was left to pick up the pieces, rebuild his life, mend relationships with his daughter and his community, which had already "judged and convicted" him of the crime. Buthelezi's main priority though, he said, was to get his job back. Although the commissioner in the department’s internal dispute resolution hearing had ruled in his favour and found that his dismissal was substantially unfair, and that the department had not followed procedures when it had fired him, he was not granted a reinstatement. Instead, he was awarded two months' salary of R16 000. Buthelezi said he had been unable to get a nursing job anywhere in the country because of the stigma of rape attached to him. He recently got a job at a furniture shop in Verulam which paid him R400 a week. “All I want is my job back and to clear my name. I lost my friends, my girlfriend and my car because of the rape accusations. I loved my job and I still miss it. For me, nursing is a calling,” he said. Buthelezi’s lawyer, Shireen Amod, who represented him during the rape case and at the hearing, said she had now taken the matter to the Labour Court to force the department to reinstate Buthelezi. Amod said Buthelezi had a successful nursing career ahead of him and had done everything to get an education. “The allegations against him were serious. However, it emerged during the trial that the patient had visual hallucinations and that she had made rape allegations against a doctor and other workers before,” she said. Amod said Buthelezi had never intended to sue the State for all the trauma he was put through, but now that the department had refused to reinstate him, he would consider suing the Department of Health. Provincial Department of Health spokesperson Sam Mkhwanazi said the department would not comment since Buthelezi was no longer an employee. He said Buthelezi had taken the matter to the Labour Court and the department would now wait for the outcome of the court case. Daily News