The subject taught her how to start her own garden at home and what to grow in which season. She learnt that onions, cabbage, carrots and lettuce were the easiest to grow. Sithole is one of more than 50 matric pupils who wrote the not-so-popular subject at Dumisani Makhaye High School in Welbedacht yesterday. The paper was one of the last for the class of 2017 written yesterday. “I chose agriculture because I was always fascinated about the fact that food comes from the soil and by the importance of farming and growing vegetables,” she said. She said although some of her schoolmates still made fun of them and teased them, saying they would work in the sun and be outdoors all their lives, she believed that agriculture was an important sector. Siphokazi Nene said she chose agriculture to build towards a career in the sector. Research “The agriculture sector has a lot of opportunities. I want to make money and this sector would allow me that opportunity. I did my research and found that since it did not attract a lot of young people, it was one of the sectors that still has opportunities,” said Nene. The school has been 
operating since 2006 and has a good track record with matric results, achieving nothing less than 85% for the past three years. Education MEC Mthandeni Dlungwane was at the school yesterday to monitor the last day of matric exams. He spent some time in the exam room making observations and was impressed with the invigilating process. In the past, KwaZulu-Natal has recorded cases of irregularities in exams and group copying. The department yesterday confirmed that all the schools which had been implicated in group copying in the past had their results released, except for Mashiyamahle High School where the pupils had taken the matter to court. “The exam monitors made sure that the integrity of the exams was not compromised. We introduced safeguards that worked. We will now embark on the marking process, where patterns in group copying are usually detected,” he said. He said the province did not experience any irregularities at this year’s exams and had no reported paper leaks. He said this was because of the increased number of exam monitors who had been deployed at writing centres in 
the province. The marking process would, however, confirm this as some of the irregularities are not witnessed, but become apparent during marking. Dlungwane said the markers had already been appointed and 27 marking centres in the province were ready. “To us the marking process is quite critical. Scripts are just not pieces of paper, they are valuable and they are treated as such,” he said. Marking would last from December 3 to 14 and the Department of Basic Education was expected to release the matric results on January 4. Dlungwane said he hoped that the class of 2017 would produce excellent results. “We are not only looking at achieving good results, but we are also aiming at producing quality results by increasing the number of bachelor passes,” he said. Daily News