On Thursday, Susan Rohde’s brother-in-law, Peter Norton, said that on the day of the funeral, Jason had not spoken to him - even after he’d paid for transport of the body to Joburg. Norton said his wife Susan’s sister, Angela Norton, was outraged by Rohde’s infidelity. “There was a sense of compassion and suspicion towards him,” he said. A statement Rohde made to police on the morning of the murder was read out in court. In it, he explained that he and his wife had had a disagreement at about 2.30am on July 24, the day of the murder, last year. Rohde said after deciding to go for a drink at a friend’s room, Susan had followed. “My wife in her gown and no shoes followed me to his room. She tripped and cut her foot and left eyebrow.” They both returned to their room to sleep until she awoke at 7am, still upset. She had gone to the bathroom, where she was later found dead, he said. Norton said when asked by his father-in-law how big the fight was, Jason said it was “one of those”. He said the family had not been aware of Rohde’s infidelity and might have judged him. In cross-examination, Pete Mahalik, Rohde’s lawyer, said his client had been ostracised by the victim’s family, which may have been the reason why he didn’t speak to anyone at the funeral or stay for tea. “My client was treated by your wife and father-in-law as a murderer. He was victimised and ostracised, judged even before his day in court, despite the fact that his father-in-law had committed infidelity and your wife wanted to leave you on the day of your wedding,” he said. Mahalik also raised the issue of Susan’s mental state. Her father’s infidelity, her sister’s marital problems and her husband’s infidelity might have prompted her to commit suicide, he argued. The court heard Susan’s sister had had wedding jitters on the day of her nuptials, and separated from her husband three years later. Mahalik said Susan described Angela as dark, chubby and a liar. Norton replied: “They were loving sisters” Daily News