Mkhize, one of the ANC presidential hopefuls, is winning hearts and minds of ANC branch members in the Eastern Cape, Limpopo and his home province of KwaZulu-Natal. As it stands, former African Union Chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma and Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa are in the lead to become president, but Mkhize is considered more than just a dark horse. To many analysts and political insiders, Mkhize is viewed as a compromise candidate in a campaign that has been characterised by the divisions being created by those who support Dlamini Zuma and  Ramaphosa. At a breakfast session with journalists in Durban yesterday, Mkhize said the court cases, problems with provincial conferences and disputes at branch general meetings needed to be resolved so that tensions could be removed before the elective conference in December. This is a tall ask but Mkhize appears to be quietly confident that this is achievable and perhaps, although he did not say it, he is positioning himself as the candidate who can ease tensions in the party and unite Africa’s oldest liberation movement before the 2019 elections. Mkhize believes that the ANC’s problems with factionalism and patronage stem from the 2007 elective conference that saw Jacob Zuma sweep aside Thabo Mbeki and set the tone for how the ANC would elect its leaders. “My major regret is that we entrenched a lot of slate politics in 2007. I have to admit I was at the centre of it.” Mkhize said in terms of the leadership decided on at that historic conference in Polokwane, he had no regrets. Culture “(Ever since Polokwane) there have been cultural developments that we know was not part of the ANC culture this is not a way for the ANC to sustain itself. “This time around we must go and dismantle this idea of slate politics. It is a system that forces people to go on the ‘wrong’ side and those people get completely sidelined.” “What I regret is that in the ten years since Polokwane, we have not been able to reduce or eliminate slate politics and factionalism,” he said. Mkhize said for the ANC to undo what had occurred at Polokwane the leadership at the conference must not align themselves to slates. “We must allow the branches to nominate the leadership according to what they desire. If we can do this we can start to correct what we did in 2007. “We need to be upfront about what has gone wrong - those of us who were at the forefront of the factions in 2007 must be at the forefront of dismantling the factions,” he said. Asked what he would do if he was not elected  president of the party in December, Mkhize was non-committal. “The branches have nominated people for the position of president, and we will wait for the branches to pronounce on their decisions,” he said. The ANC’s elective conference will be held from December 19 to 20, 2017, at the Nasrec Convention Centre in Gauteng. Daily News