Briefing the joint meeting of the standing committee on public accounts (Scopa) and the social development portfolio committee, Minister in the Presidency Jeff Radebe said Sapo was to be assessed on its ability to perform the four core functions and services it was assigned to perform. “Right now there is a process to finalise the capabilities of Sapo on the basis (of a) collaboration agreement that will be signed by November 24,” Radebe said. He was leading the government inter-ministerial committee (IMC) on comprehensive social grants, which is monitoring the court order imposed by the Constitutional Court to phase out the contract of Cash Paymaster Services to distribute Sassa grants. Radebe said they would receive a document and discuss it with Sapo in order to determine Sapo’s potential. This comes after the two entities signed an “implementation protocol” on Friday. “This protocol forms the foundation for the signing of a further detailed collaborative agreement between Sassa and Sapo with the detailed project plan which will be submitted to the IMC by December 6 (and to the) Constitutional Court by December 8,” Radebe said. Agreed He also said financial institutions and commercial banks have agreed on the principle of establishing affordable accounts for social grant beneficiaries. The Government Communications Information Services (GCIS) has developed a communication strategy to keep beneficiaries informed of the process being followed. Asked if there was a Plan B if Sapo was found not to be cost effective, Radebe said they have an implementation plan for the Constitutional Court directives, which contained a timeline to be met by Sassa. “That plan includes all risk-mitigation measures and all contingencies to highlight difficulties in executing the court order,” he said. “Our implementation plan will include everything that has to happen for a new service provider or service providers to be in place by April 1, 2018.” Meanwhile, it has emerged that the panel of experts appointed by the Constitutional Court to oversee the phasing out of Cash Paymaster Services’ contract has recommended National Treasury investigate Sassa officials and the Social Development Department for possible prosecution. The investigation, if approved, will target the awarding of contracts to service providers, and Sassa’s oversight role. The DA’s Tim Brauteseth said Scopa should follow up on the investigation of criminal conduct of the officials and hold Sassa accountable. “There are lots of people (who) need to be held accountable for where we are today,” Brauteseth said. The IFP’s Mkhuleko Hlengwa took a swipe at the IMC, under President Jacob Zuma, after it took a long time to allay the anxieties around the social grants. “We must, as Scopa and the portfolio committee on social development, take credit for having pushed this thing until something was done. It bodes well for accountability and oversight in terms of our duty,” Hlengwa said. The ANC’s Nyami Booi said the parliamentarians should congratulate themselves for a job well done in helping to hold the executive to account in the Sassa debacle. Daily News