Neighbour Thulsile Hadebe said that at about 5am on Friday, neighbours heard a crashing noise. “Everyone thought a car had crashed into the yard. The wooden house that my cousin, Ndumiso Hadebe, his pregnant girlfriend, Ntokozo Ngema, and their three-year-old child, Inathi, lived in was destroyed. “Neighbours rushed to see what had happened. When they got there they found the collapsed wall.” Hadebe said everyone frantically tried to move the rubble to save the family and continued helping after the emergency services arrived. “As people were removing the rubble, the hope I had that we would find them alive faded. “It would have been a miracle if they had got out alive. "When the bodies were removed, they did not have any blood on them and they looked like they were asleep. "This made it hard for some people to accept that they had really died," she said. “What really hurt was that Ntokozo was about seven months pregnant with their second child and she had already bought baby clothes. “What also hurt was that I was talking to Ndumiso on Friday and he said he was worried about the retaining wall because it had been damaged in last month’s heavy rains.” Thulsile said her cousin had a tough upbringing and had lost his father while he was still a child and did not live with his mother. She said Hadebe had made a living by selling snacks. “Even though he never had much in terms of money and possessions, he would always give his last cent to try to help anyone who was in need.” Zanele Zungu, Ngema’s aunt, said she thought the little girl had survived. “The way they were carefully holding her, we thought she had survived, but it was not to be. It hurts so much. I can’t begin to describe how painful it is,” she said. She described her niece as a normal girl who wanted to work in the tourism industry and was studying travel and tourism at eThekwini College. Nomusa Dube-Ncube, MEC for Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs, passed on her condolences to the family. “As the provincial government we are really saddened by what has happened in KwaMashu and we have dispatched disaster management teams to provide assistance to the family during this difficult time,” she said. The eThekwini Municipality had issued a warning to residents to be careful during the rains at the weekend. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala confirmed the incident and said an inquest docket had been opened. Daily News