Transport, Community Safety and Liaison MEC Mxolisi Kaunda said this on Wednesday at a provincial meeting of law enforcement heads at the Westville Correctional Facility. He named Nongoma, Richmond and Maphumulo as some of the areas where violence could erupt. “Some of these areas are experiencing high levels of crime, because of instability in the taxi industry,” Kaunda said.  He went on to say there was a need for better co-operation between “structures within crime intelligence” to be proactive and act before the crimes were committed. Kaunda said it was also important that when arrests were made, it was not only hit men who were arrested but the masterminds behind the killings.  “We must suffocate them and criminals should not have space to breathe,” he said. When facing heavily armed criminals, he encouraged the more than 200 police officers 
who were present to “fight fire with fire”. “Your guns must always be ready,” Kaunda said. This, however, did not mean that officers should be trigger-happy, and that the 
Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) should also be understanding of the “heavy 
burden” that police carry, he said. He went on to say that it was the police’s job to uphold the constitution and protect the public.  He lambasted corrupt officials and officers who accepted “cool drink” money. He said 12 officers had been fired at Golela and Kosi Bay for colluding with criminals. Another two officers were expelled at Nkwalini for involvement in a stock theft syndicate. Kaunda lamented the number of deaths on the roads, saying there were about 14 000 fatalities on the roads annually and a large number of these come from KwaZulu-Natal, especially during the Easter and December periods. Kaunda said he dreaded when crime statistics and road deaths statistics were announced as the province featured prominently.  Hijacked buildings were another concern he raised.  In a recent visit to Durban, Kaunda said he found about 1 000 people sleeping in a room the size of a hall.  Enforcing by-laws was something the municipality needed to tackle. In a breakthrough, police on Wednesday said six men were arrested near Richards Bay. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said the alleged hit men were found with seven unlicensed firearms and ammunition. The operation was a joint effort between the Tactical Response Team, National Intervention Unit, Public Order Police and Air wing.  It is alleged that they had been operating between Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal and were involved in taxi-related incidents, police killings, ATM bombings, cash-in-transit heists, political killings, armed robbery and hijackings,  she said.  The suspects were aged between 34 and 52. Daily News