It was important for all homeowners to be aware of the effect of the drought on their home, and therefore their insurance, he said on Wednesday. “Areas of the home that could be affected by water restrictions include water pipes, swimming pools and gardens,” he said. Damage caused by drought was not a peril typically covered by insurance policies that covered sudden and unforeseen events, but was a gradually operating cause, he said. “The general principle in insurance is that policyholders should take all reasonable care to safeguard and protect their assets. People should act as though they are not insured. This premise also applies during a drought, when policy holders need to do whatever is reasonably practical to minimise damage when they’ve known about a situation like this.” Water rations, which also involved completely cut-off water supplies for short periods, could have detrimental effects on water pipes, he said. “The turning on and off of water can cause pipes to burst, with subsequent risk of flooding and therefore excessive water bills. Clients would have to be aware of this fact and should be more observant in and around their properties to ensure there are no burst or leaking pipes,” Loots said. Homeowners should cover their swimming pools to minimise water evaporation, as they could not fill their pools due to the water restrictions. “Swimming pools are designed to have water in them, so the system, walls and tiling of pools are more susceptible to damage if they are left exposed to the sunlight with no water. Fibreglass pools, in particular, specifically need water weight to prevent them from popping out of the ground.” Homeowners should switch off the pump if the water level drops to below the weir as  this would prevent the pump from sucking in air and burning out. Garage Incorporated chief executive Professor Dilip Garach said: “Drought will not be part of most people’s inherent risks as part of their insurance. If anything is damaged as a result of drought, they would not be insured against it.” Daily News