Lees’s comment drew the ire of EFF MPs, forcing him to withdraw his comment. Lees said it was not a bad idea to nationalise banks, it was a “mad idea”, echoing several DA speakers. EFF leader Julius Malema had brought the motion in the National Assembly to debate the nationalisation of banks. “The cardinal pillars of the EFF are non-negotiable and constitute the true future of South Africa. We make this call fully aware that the financial services sector is the biggest sector in the economy." He argued that “despite running our lives”, banks had no meaningful ownership by the black majority. Malema has proposed a “Banks Ownership Act” which will stipulate that all banks have at least 51% state ownership. “The remaining shares will be owned by institutions like pension funds, co-operatives and private individuals with a guarantee that no single individual or investor will own more than 10% in a single bank,” argued Malema. But the ANC’s Adrian Williams said MPs had to engage the question of nationalisation in a “calm and thoughtful” manner. “The implications of nationalising banks without compensation are extensive. There are good and bad implications, and this house needs to find the best possible way to put the interest of the South African people first,” said Williams. While some had a “warm and toasty feeling” about  nationalising banks, Williams said this was subjective and not supported by facts. He said there would be consequences for South Africa, with a third of the money in local banks borrowed from overseas. “South Africa doesn’t exist in a vacuum. When it comes to international finance we are just a cog in the capitalist wheel. The question that should really be asked is: Has capitalism failed the people?” The DA’s David Maynier said nationalisation would crush the hopes of South Africa’s 9.4 million unemployed. “The EFF, like their hero (former Venezuelan leader) Hugo Chavez, wants to nationalise the banks without compensation. This means seizing ownership of 16 domestic banks, 15 foreign banks, three mutual banks and two co-operative banks, and seizing the assets of banks whose loans and advances total R3.7 trillion and whose assets totalled R4.9 trillion in 2016/17.” Daily News