Snow also fell in some areas today, resulting in a chilly morning, even at the coast. At Shongweni, five people died after two cars collided on the N3. Four were seriously injured. Rescue Care operations director Garrith Jamieson said some of the injured were trapped in the mangled wreckage of the vehicles. “Three men and two women were declared dead at the scene. The Jaws of Life were used to extricate the others from the cars. “Advanced life-support paramedics were called to the scene to assist with the injured and stabilise the trapped patients until they were freed. They were taken to hospital,” he said. In Verulam, a man died after being stuck by lightning on a bridge on the R102. Prem Balram, of Reaction Unit SA (Rusa), said a passing motorist saw the man being struck. “Paramedics and Rusa officers responded and found a group of people gathered on the bridge. The lifeless body of an unknown male was found lying on the pavement. Paramedics found that he had suffered burns. He was declared dead at the scene,” Balram said. Earlier in the day, at least 18 people were injured in a number of accidents across the city. In the first accident, 10 people were injured after a bus and truck collided on the N2, near Gateway. The Jaws of Life was used to extricate the bus driver. “Once freed, he was taken to  hospital. Eight passengers in the bus were also injured and were taken to various hospitals. “The truck driver escaped with minor injuries and was also taken to hospital,” Jamieson said. In another crash on the N3, near Richmond Road, a worker was injured when a car veered off the road and hit him. The driver was also injured. Paul Herbst, of IPSS Medical Rescue, said they responded to four crashes in which six people were injured. According to SA Weather Service forecaster Jan Vermeulen, from Wednesday to 5am today, Durban South recorded 36mm of rainfall; Mount Edgecombe, 58mm; Pennington, 56mm; Mandeni, 35mm; Greytown, 38mm; Giant’s Castle, 45mm; and Pietermaritzburg, 36mm. Snow Report SA reported today that light snow fell in the Eastern Cape and Clarens, in the Free State. Snow had also fallen in Mooi River. Widespread rainfall can also be expected over much of the southern and eastern parts of the country today, with heavy rain and possible flooding expected in KZN, the Eastern Cape and eastern parts of the Mpumalanga. The cooler weather is attributed to a steep upper-air trough. Meanwhile, residents of the informal settlement in Foreman Road have managed to rebuild their homes after a shack blaze at the weekend. Sydenham Community Police Forum communications officer Satish Dhupelia said eThekwini municipality had provided a tent for residents and had been running a soup kitchen. “Some employers have given monies to buy material to rebuild. The greater community has also banded together to donate food and blankets. I received a call from a local laundromat that donated unclaimed clothing,” Dhupelia said. Daily News