Former iSimangaliso Wetland Park chief executive Andrew Zaloumis said Slade’s comments, which went viral, were “humiliating, hurtful and deeply demeaning and invasive of the human dignity of Africans and government employees”, and, along with later interviews Slade gave, represented hate speech as defined by the Promotion of Equality and Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act. Zaloumis, who asked the SA Human Rights Commission to institute an Equality Court application against Slade and his Sodwana Bay Guest House, also wants Slade ordered to undertake not to make further comments against blacks, government employees “or any other person based on their race”. He has further asked the court to order Slade and his wife, Slovakian-born Katarina Krizaniova, to close down their websites and/or blogs “given the discriminatory, offensive and hurtful nature of the comments that they contain”. Read: 'Whites are superior and God’s law requires segregation' Racist Sodwana guest house owner unrepentant And he wants them to pay R50 000 to a non-profit organisation in Mtubatuba. The Tourism Department was another applicant in the matter, heard at the Equality Court in Umbombo Magistrate’s Court last week. Judgment will be given in February. While the now closed guest house had no affiliation to iSimangaliso, being 5km outside the park’s boundaries, Zaloumis said Slade’s comments flew in the face of everything iSimangaliso was striving to do to improve people’s lives in the area. The case followed an e-mail Slade sent to a prospective guest, in which he said: “We do not accommodate blacks or government employees any longer.” He said in a subsequent newspaper article: “We work according to God’s law, and we have to have some sort of segregation between the creation that He left here the law you have in South Africa is Satan’s law.” Bible And in another interview with a black radio presenter, he said: “Black people were servants and the Bible made it very clear His Bible said He could not mix with another race.” Comments to the presenter included: “We do not have the same blood, skin, hair. There are about 300 differences between you and me. You are classified in the Bible as an animal, you are not Homo sapiens” And “black people were not people”. In his opposing affidavit, Slade and his wife, who had been managing the guest house at the time of the controversial e-mail, said they wanted the matter referred to the Constitutional Court, which itself was racist “as it clearly excludes Blacks by addressing people only”. Slade, 55, who denied being a racist, also said whites had bigger brains than Africans, who could never be better than their teachers/masters. He said the couple were humiliated, shunned, sworn at, attacked, abused, refused assistance, assaulted, ignored and denied the benefit of their constitutional rights since the e-mail spread, facing violations from the police, courts, lawyers, prosecutors and immigration officials “all this for speaking the truth”. His wife, 28, said in her papers that their belief and culture were based on God’s law “We knew for sure we were the two witnesses of Almighty God whose coming He had prophesied Our conscience made us take a stand for what we believe this led to the Sodwana Bay Guest House saga” Krizaniova was arrested after police checked her passport and found it did not contain a visa stamp. She was detained by the Ubombo Magistrate’s Court for “illegal immigration”. Although she told an assessment team at the Fort Napier psychiatric hospital in Pietermaritzburg that “I am Sophia/Immayah known as the Holy Spirit and Andre M Slade is Enki/Yahshuah known as the Son of God”, she was declared mentally healthy. The Ubombo Magistrate’s Court had doubted the couple’s mental health after Krizaniova denied being an illegal immigrant and Slade denied a “harbouring” charge. Zaloumis said that while Slade was entitled to his beliefs under the constitution, “he may not use his beliefs to discriminate against any persons”. The right to religion cannot override the right to equality, 
he argued. Daily News