Two buckets of human excrement was dumped at the venue - the Stanger Siva Sungum - before protesters threw stones at the building and then stormed the hall. Concerned Citizens Group (CCG) chairperson Haroon Mohammedy said yesterday that leaders of represented organisations had to discipline their members. “We expect the authorities to discharge their obligations in respect of this,” he said. Read more: WATCH: ANC protestors disrupt Pravin Gordhan talk On Sunday, two men were seen dumping two buckets filled with faeces at the main entrance, before they fled. This was shortly before Gordhan’s ­arrival. A large group of people, many wearing ANC and ANCYL attire, arrived in bakkies and gathered a few metres from the hall. Police, private security guards and traffic police were present, but they did not intervene when protesters threw stones and later forced their way into the hall. “At the outset it must be stated that this was a fund-raising function in KwaDukuza, and not a political meeting. Mr Pravin Gordhan was invited in his personal capacity, as a guest speaker.” Mohammedy said the human waste was thrown by an unknown individual. “When Mr Gordhan was on the podium, a more violent attempt to enter the premises was made by the protesters. They broke down the roll-up shutter door and gained access into the kitchen. They vandalised the area and stole refreshments. Injury “They hurled 2-litre cold drinks at the volunteers, causing injury to a few women,” Mohammedy said. Gordhan had to ­curtail his speech as he had an early flight to Johannesburg, he said.  “As there was concern about his and his wife’s safety, his bodyguard whisked them away.” Mohammedy said the CCG was indebted to the younger male guests, who formed a barrier in front of the entrance to the hall, preventing the protesters from gaining entry. “Were it not for their intervention, greater damage to person and property would have been caused.” Meanwhile, ANC provincial chairperson Sihle Zikalala said Gordhan spoke to him moments before the incident. Zikalala said Gordhan had called at about 4pm on Sunday to inform him that he was going to address the event. Zikalala said the ANC condemned what happened “in the strongest terms”. “People have constitutional rights to meet and engage on issues affecting society,” said Zikalala. He said that he would get a proper briefing on what had occurred. The ANC and its Youth League in KwaZulu-Natal have also condemned and distanced themselves from the protest. “We had nothing to do with that (disruption), we are not anarchists,” ANC Youth League provincial secretary Thanduxolo Sabelo said. The youth league should not be linked to the protesters, he said. “We did not know there was going to be a protest.” He said the Youth League would not take action, as the protest was not linked to them. “The ANCYL never commissioned anyone to go there. We cannot be embarrassed by something we know nothing about.” ANCYL chairperson in KwaDukuza Region Mfanafuthi Ngcobo also condemned the poo-throwing incident. Daily News