Cookie Pillay of Gopal Singh Road was concerned about the sewage flowing down a stream behind her home since the storm three weeks ago. Pillay said during the storm, the stream turned into a raging river, burst its banks and tore down boundary walls along the way. She said sewerage pipes had cracked and broke upstream and near her home. Sewage was now flowing into the stream. She claimed some residents couldn’t flush their toilets because of the blockages in the pipes. Concrete stormwater pipes, bricks and other debris fill up the stream. Pillay has been told to be patient while the municipality sorts out the mess. The south Durban areas like eManzimtoti, Isipingo, uMlazi and the Bluff bore the brunt of the storm. A total of 3112 households in 60 wards were affected. Ward councillor Sunil Brijmohan said there had been a clean-up of the area. He said they had almost finished  restoring a road that was washed away so that the railway lines could be re-opened. “Different municipal units are working to clean up and repair damages to infrastructure. We are working with a priority list of complaints. There are houses that were severely damaged and had soil washed away from underneath them,” he said. Asked about the sewage water leaking into the streams, he said culverts were being cleaned and the source of the leaks were being identified upstream and as far inland as uMlazi. “Officials are busy with the tasks. Sometimes the problem can take days to sort out. Plans are to canalise some of the streams to prevent flooding. Residential boundary walls that collapsed and the debris that washed up on the roads are being cleared at municipal expense,” Brijmohan said. According to a report tabled at the eThekwini Municipality’s executive committee meeting, repairing infrastructure damaged during the storm would cost more than R576million. Engineering-related repairs would require R308m, the Department of Human Settlements required R250m, disaster management and emergency control R4.1m, parks and recreation R7.7m, 
cleaning and solid waste R1.3m, electricity R2.6m and water and sanitation R2.3m. Daily News