Durban - A race to treat passengers and transport them to hospital turned ugly this week when two private-ambulance service paramedics got into an altercation over patients.
One of the men allegedly drew a knife, in full view of patients. A video of the ordeal has been circulating on social media. The emergency teams were at the scene of a collision between a taxi and car on the N2. It is alleged that paramedics from Rescue Care and Life Response 24/7 argued about who should treat and transport the injured. One of the medics produced a knife. One of the men seen in the video says he is desperate to clear his name and has since laid a charge of assault against the other medic.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Leon Fourie, operations director of Life Response 24/7, said his team had arrived and had started treating patients when a Rescue Care team arrived. “My team arrived in two ambulances. There were 10 patients so they each took five people to their vehicles to treat. “One of the medics from the other operator tried to park between where my vehicles were parked. A paramedic got out and tried to open the door of one of the vehicles. He also shouted at my crew,” Fourie said. He said he warned the Rescue Care medic to stop and the man became aggressive. “He pushed me and I pushed him back. He then pushed my head into the bonnet of our vehicle and broke my glasses. He threatened me and went to his vehicle and retrieved a knife. “I was wearing a reflector vest and lifted it as though I was pulling my firearm out. I was not armed,” he said. Police arrived at the scene shortly afterwards and Fourie said he gave them his version of the events. Rescue Care operations director Garrith Jamieson said from their initial investigation, there was an altercation between members of their staff and Life Response 24/7 medics. “We consider this altercation serious as threats of violence were made against our paramedics. “Our investigation into the conduct of our own staff is ongoing, and reports have also been filed to law enforcement authorities,” he said.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. According to Jamieson, they have laid several complaints with the Health Professions Council of SA (HPCSA). “They are all regarding the aforesaid individual’s conduct. We understand that several members of the public have laid similar complaints, all of which are pending,” he said. Fourie confirmed that complaints had been made against him with the HPCSA, but none were successful. Crisis Medical spokesperson Kyle van Reenen said there was no place for such behaviour among emergency teams. “Emergency medical services are often the final light of hope for someone who is at their lowest moment in life, their ‘golden hour’. “To have this kind of behaviour occurring is nothing short of horrifying, to say the least. “If this kind of behaviour continues and is allowed, how can the public trust the lives of their loved ones and themselves in the hands of what will soon be deemed as ‘EMS thugs’? “Emergency Medical Services have a slogan ‘So others may live’, but I feel we, as an industry, are far from that ethos if we allow this kind of behaviour to permeate our once noble field,” he said. A case of assault was opened at Sydenham police station, Captain Myen Lazarus confirmed. He said police were investigating the matter. Daily News