Nondumiso Nontobeko Masango, Samkelisiwe Mkhazi and Busisiwe Thandeka Majola from Bhilibana High School in Nkandla were told three weeks before the exams that they would not be able to write as their names were not on the list. Frustrated and confused, they lost all hope of rectifying the error before exams began with the English paper. They missed out on a whole week of exams and were unable to write English Paper 1 as well as maths Paper 1 and 2. And then, they got word that they could write the matric exams. In a letter their parents jointly wrote to the provincial Department of Education 
before their daughters got the official go-ahead to write their matric exams, they said the department had “buried them alive” and demanded answers. They said the department had crippled their children’s future. Majola, who was repeating Grade 12, said this was causing further delays in getting her matric. Her father, Vusumuzi Majola, who said he was struggling to pay for his daughter’s education, added that he was confident that his daughter would pass this time around thanks to the hard work she had put into her studies. “I was planning to sell my cows so she could go to university next year. Now I fear that this may not be a reality due to the depression she suffered.” Another parent, Mhlonipheni Masango, said the situation had taken its 
toll on her daughter pychologically. “They were not prepared to stomach this traumatic stress and depression. Now if they end up committing suicide, who is going to account for that? “We feel that the department let us down and they owe us an explanation as to what led to this saga. “We want the department to conduct an investigation and leave no stone unturned to find out what led to our children’s names not being on the roll.” She said they would not let their children be scapegoats of public servants who did not want to do their jobs. Her daughter said they were at a huge disadvantage compared with the rest of the matriculants. She said they were told they could write the subjects they missed during the supplementary exams starting on January19. Nondumiso said although she was glad to have the opportunity to write some of the subjects, she was worried that she would not perform to the best of her ability. “When I was told that I would not write, I was traumatised and confused. I stayed at home and studied with hope that the error would be sorted soon, but I stopped a few days before the exams. “I lost hope and told myself that it served no purpose to study as I was not going to write,” she said. She had only written one paper so far, Zulu Paper 1. “I do not think I will do as well as I had expected. This has affected me emotionally. My future is uncertain. I now have to wait longer than others to get my results,” she said. Kwazi Mthethwa, the Department of Education spokesperson, said their concerns would be attended to. “If there is a pupil who has missed a certain paper for 
a reason beyond their control, we will then present such cases to Umalusi, the examination board, for advice on how to handle the case,” 
said Mthethwa. Daily News