His visit coincided with the prisoners writing their matric history exam. Twenty-eight inmates sat their exam under the watchful eye of prison warders. A few empty seats kept them far from each other, reflective plastic packets with just a pencil, ruler, answer sheet and an exam question paper were all they needed to rewrite their own history. MEC Dlungwane accompanied by the head of department, Dr Enock Vusumuzi Nzama, pleaded with inmates to continue with their studies and promised to fund inmates who performed exceptionally well in their exams. “You have been afforded an opportunity of a lifetime: a second chance at life to advance your skills in different fields. “Some of you will venture for technology and some will become our future leaders,” he said. “We have a responsibility to provide quality education to everyone regardless of where you come from. Ours as the department is to make sure that we encourage, motivate and provide a conducive environment for each one of you so you can reach your full potential. “We want to support you and make sure you do well in life because education is important and it is the way to success,” said Dlungwane. The principal at the prison school, Nelly Mkhize, commended the inmates for not throwing in the towel and allowing themselves a second chance at life. “They all have a responsibility and that is making sure they go through rehabilitation, pass their matric exams and be introduced back into society with a better mindset and direction,” Mkhize said. “Most come from child-headed families and never received proper guidance. It is our responsibility to see them making a positive transition as they change their lives preparing for the outside world,” she said. “I’m expecting a 100% pass rate. They have made themselves and everyone else proud. “Even when I was not present they kept the momentum going; I’m sure they will reap positive results,” said Mkhize. Eight inmates were said to have obtained five distinctions in their exam trials and the MEC promised them that the department would fully fund their studies at university. Daily News * Click here to win amazing prizes by signing up to receive your Matric Results via IOL.