The sitting at the Durban City Hall on Tuesday heard that senior citizens across eThekwini would be presented with refreshments, a gift package containing foodstuffs and “other” selected items. More than R20 million will be spent for the event. Sharon Hoosen, DA councillor, said previous years' programmes were marred with irregularities, which were brought to the attention of the municipality. “We have not received reports into those irregularities. It would be proper to finalise the processes followed into those irregularities and then look into the current year’s programme. "This is a festive season event, yet to date we don’t even have a programme of events. The commencement date has not been communicated to councillors,” Hoosen said. She alleged that the event was delayed and specifications were changed to suit a certain company preference. The irregularities alleged in this year’s programme were also claimed in the events of the past two years. In 2014, a report compiled by former city manager S'bu Sithole pertaining to allega-
tions of possible collusion among officials, councillors and suppliers had been drafted, but was never tabled at exco, Hoosen said. The Daily News has seen a letter addressed to city manager Sipho Nzuza urging him to investigate the possible irregularities in the event. The letter from a whistle-
blower listed the names of municipal officials who are alleged to be involved in the irregularity. “Tender documents were altered to accommodate no-name and other inferior brands with the aim of minimising expenditure," Hoosen said "How different then will this event be compared to the previous one where there were reports of poor service to the elderly? This must be investigated,” she said. Chickens More than 60 000 senior citizens in eThekwini’s 110 wards stand to benefit. The Sunday Tribune, the Daily News's sister newspaper, reported last week that in last year’s event the chickens that were supplied were cheap imports from Brazil and the rice was also an unpopular brand. IFP councillor Mdu Nkosi said rural people anxiously needed this event and that he was troubled that no date had been set yet. “To this day we have no idea as to how far we have gone with the preparations,” Nkosi said. Mayor Zandile Gumede appealed to Nzuza to look into Hoosen’s allegations. Gumede assured councillors that eThekwini western areas would start with the event on Thursday. “Our officials are ready for the event which is handled in my office and the office of the speaker." She said the circular on the programme of events would be released on Wednesday. Nzuza said he was not aware of Sithole’s investigation, but the allegations were “definitely receiving” attention. Daily News