While some wrote English first language, others wrote English additional language. The school attracts pupils from as far as the Eastern Cape and northern KwaZulu-Natal who wish to improve their matric results. The school also accepts pupils who had dropped out and those expelled from their schools, to pick up their high- school studies. Some said although their parents struggled to pay the monthly fees, they had sent them there for a better future. Nelisiwe Dladla said the school offered them a second chance at finishing school. “For some of us, it is a second chance at education. I think I will pass matric. I'm optimistic about the future. I am looking forward to finally finishing school and going to university,” she said. Dladla said she found the paper to be average and was able to finish it 30 minutes early. One of the pupils repeating Grade 12 said she came to the school to improve her matric results. While most thought the English paper was fair, others were confident of passing. Mbalenhle Hedder, who wrote English home language, said she was nervous because if she failed the subject she would fail her matric. “But I feel so much better now that I have written the paper. The previous papers were also manageable. I guess I can start planning my future. I plan to study psychology.” She felt it unfair that failing English meant having to repeat the grade. “It’s one of those unfortunate rules that lead to pupils failing matric. Working hard is all we have to do. These days having a matric is the first step to a bright future,” she said. Thobeka Mzimela, who also wrote the English home language, said this paper was much better than paper 1. “I enjoyed paper 2 a lot. The short stories were exciting. I had prepared well and had enough time." Thabisile Myeni said her love of reading short stories and poetry paid off and she was able to write the paper quickly. “I enjoyed reading the short stories so because I am used to reading, I was able to go through them quickly and had enough time to concentrate on the questions and answers,” she said. Daily News