Currently, 260 branches want Dlamini Zuma as the next president, 69 want Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, and Zweli Mkhize has the backing of two branches. The ANC is expected to complete its BGMs, aimed at nominating candidates for top leadership positions, by next weekend. However, Ramaphosa’s campaigner in KZN, MPL Jomo Sibiya, has disputed the PEC figures. Reading out the statistics, PEC member  and provincial ANC Youth League chairman Kwazi Mshengu said out of eThekwini’s 110 branches, 57 BGMs had nominated Dlamini Zuma. He said in the Musa Dladla region, 27 preferred Dlamini Zuma while six chose Ramaphosa, with 56 outstanding. Sibiya said Ramaphosa had more than 20 nominations in Emalahleni, while in the Far North he had about 20. “In my region, Inkosi Bhambatha, he has more than 15, in Ukhahlamba he is close to 20. “All the BGMs in eThekwini have been officially disputed because proper process has not been followed. “Other regions in the province are reporting similar disputes,” said Sibiya. He said it was untrue that Ramaphosa was losing. “We (Ramaphosa’s camp) will have 400 delegates from KZN attending the December elective conference. Ramaphosa is doing very well in KZN. “They (KZN) will not go to the conference with all 870 delegates voting for Dlamini Zuma,” said Sibiya. Despite the outcry from various branches across the province over irregular conduct during BGMs, eThekwini regional secretary Bheki Ntuli said the only dispute that had been lodged came from eThekwini’s Ward 35, the uMhlanga branch. Aggrieved members should, according to ANC policy, lodge a dispute in writing within 48 hours after the BGM, he said. Reacting to allegations from SACP provincial chairman James Nxumalo that he was not informed about his local BGM, which nominated Dlamini Zuma, at Ward 4 in Ntshanga, west of Durban, ANC spokesperson Mdumiseni Ntuli said it was impossible that the former eThekwini mayor was oblivious of “such a big meeting”. Nxumalo had said he first heard about his BGM when he was watching the news. “If you are an active member of the ANC it is also your obligation to ascertain information from your leadership,” said Ntuli. Daily News