However, when you attempt to get support internationally and nationally and are perceived as promoting one race (white) and vocation (farming) above others - you become tarred as not promoting unity but division! Knowing personally many farmers, this was not their intention. Yes, farming is very important anywhere in the world as it supplies food, which we all cannot do without. If farming is seen as a dangerous vocation then not many would want to do it. Hence, in the long run it could lead to food shortages. The police are also being killed off at alarming rates and similar to farming, their services are much needed. Could there have been a collaboration between these two sectors to further highlight the plight of the high murder rate we have in South Africa (SA)? If so it could have shifted the focus off race and bolstered the protest to get the government to act. What irritated me was how well-meaning causes are being hijacked to promote selfish ideologies. The farmers’ protest was hijacked to promote the white supremacy ideology that shaped the government pre-1994. Of the many images floating around in support of farmers, the one that deeply disappointed me was of the white man sitting in the back of his bakkie, flanked on either side by the old South African flag and the cross. There could not have been two more diabolically opposed symbols than these. Of the many Christian farmers I have as friends, I am sure none of them would want anything to do with that image. As South Africans we need to move forward to unite and not divide our country - brandishing the old SA flag which was (and is) a sign of oppression, segregation and pain for the majority of South Africans, will certainly not achieve this. Moreover, to have the audacity of placing a cross alongside the old flag, implying with arrogance that “God is on our side”, is another great misrepresentation and lie, which underscored the pre-1994 government. There was and never will be any Biblical justification for ideologies that convey a message so contrary to that of the cross. In fact, it is these images that convey a wrong perception of what the message of the Bible is - even leading some to wrongly associate Christianity with racism and refer to Jesus as “the white man’s God!” Is God colour-blind? Being a Christian, I acknowledge that evil was perpetuated in our land and incorrectly, in the name of Christianity. This needs constant addressing, especially by church leaders, so that the true message of the Bible is not hijacked but clearly communicated. Why? Identity Because I can assure you it will not be uncommon to see the man seated at the back of the bakkie attending a church on a Sunday - yet not being transformed to live out the real message of the Cross - which is love, unity and forgiveness. When I share my concern with some church leaders, their response is usually: “God is colour-blind. So I do not see colour. All I see is people.” At face value, this seems nice to say and while the motivation behind these statements may be noble, it is actually quite biased. They fail to realise that what you are actually doing is taking away the uniqueness of the skin colour of the majority of people in SA. Even when you teach your kids to be colour-blind and see everyone as the “same”, you are inadvertently elevating one skin colour over another and in essence saying to them, “If anyone is not your skin colour, just make-believe that they resemble you and play nicely with them.” This undermines that culture and way of life - denies the reality that certain groups face and have faced. As we progress into forging a new, improved country for all citizens, we must remember that when we remove a key aspect of someone’s identity (skin colour), we are in essence dehumanising them. My advice is that the next time there is a call for protests against murders or any other wrongs that affect us ALL - let it be done in collaboration so that it brings awareness to all victims and not only to a specific group. This does not unite us. As South Africans, let us be wise to discern those with their selfish agendas and learn to consider the real issues at hand: Do the farmers have a point? I think so. We all, as concerned citizens, should let the government know that more should be done to stop the high rate of murders. Could the farmers’ concerns have been raised without being perceived as them wanting preference from government? Yes, certainly by collaboration across other sectors also affected. Does seeing some of the old SA flags around mean all farmers are racist? Definitely not. A lesson I learnt from eating fish curry: eat the meat and spit out the bones! *  Subrayan is a writer, speaker and life coach to sports teams and businesses. Daily News