The Airports Company of South Africa (Acsa) which owns the property on Agnes Street has deployed armed guards and a Casspir since Tuesday to guard it, to prevent any further land invasion. Residents who wished to remain anonymous said three months ago a woman claimed that the property belonged to her. But when residents enquired, they found it belonged to Acsa. They notified Acsa which then put up a fence and “no entry” signs, and reported the incident to the Verulam police station. Last Sunday, a bulldozer arrived and began tearing down trees and levelling the vacant property along Agnes Street, which residents claim is part of a conservancy. They then confronted the woman on the property 
who claimed that it belonged to her. A  stand-off ensued. Colin Naidoo, Acsa spokesperson, said the management of King Shaka International Airport had laid charges with the Verulam SAPS in connection with an illegal invasion of airport-owned land at the Mount Moreland Conservancy area. Invasion “The identity of the person responsible for the illegal invasion is known to airport management. “Airports Company South Africa is currently taking further legal advice while ensuring that security measures are intensified to prevent further invasion on that property,” Naidoo said. The woman allegedly told residents she had been 
working at the eThekwini Housing Department since 
2015 and she was well-connected. Tozi Mthethwa, city spokesperson, said the woman was not an eThekwini Municipality employee. Residents of the small quiet suburb said because of the nature conservancy in the area, many people drove around sightseeing. Residents were unaware that some were shopping for land to build on. Since the incident, the road near the disputed property has been cordoned off with barbed wire. Geoff Pullan, eThekwini ward councillor, said the municipality was concerned when citizens cleared virgin bush, especially in a sensitive environmental area. “My understanding is that this portion of the city has a D’Moss (Durban Metropolitan Open Space System) rating, so any development should be 
authorised by officials,” he said. Daily News