Delico Precious Bagaya was allegedly abducted by four men while playing with her cousin, Fortunate Suzane, outside their flat on Thursday afternoon. Fortunate told Delico’s mother, Mwamini Bagaya, and later the police, how her cousin was dragged into a car by four unidentified men dressed in light-blue uniforms. Bagaya, a domestic worker, cried tears of joy yesterday when she was reunited with her daughter, the eldest of her two children. She told The Daily News she had lost hope when the police told her she had to wait 24 hours before a missing person case could be opened. “It was the longest 24 hours of my life,” she said. “Fortunate had already confirmed that my daughter was abducted. All I wanted was for the police to begin the search immediately before she could get hurt. As hours went by waiting to launch the search, I lost all hope of ever finding her alive,” said Bagaya. A case of a missing person was opened at Brighton Beach Police Station on Saturday and the search began immediately. She was found by security guards in Verulam on Sunday morning. Bagaya said she was relieved when she received a call yesterday morning informing her that her daughter had been found unharmed. The guards had spotted the young girl wandering in the streets and suspected something was amiss and contacted the police. Delico was reunited with her mother before being taken to Addington Hospital for a check-up. Her mother burst into tears as she told of what her daughter had gone through. “I do not know who the kidnappers were and what they wanted with her. I will never rest until I know why they took her. She came back with her hair cut, but she was unharmed. She told me that they kept her blindfolded for most of the time and had put her in the boot of a car. She had difficulty giving a description of her abductors,” said the mother. Delico was taken home after her medical check-up where she found family and neighbours waiting for her.  She looked tired, distraught and immediately fell asleep on the couch. Colonel Thulani Zwane said police were investigating a case of kidnapping. No arrests have been made. Daily News