The city has been interdicted by one of the bidding companies from proceeding with the programme, citing allegations of unfair tender processes. Mayor Zandile Gumede’s spokesperson, Mthunzi Gumede, would not be drawn to give details on the interdict. He only said they were waiting for a directive from the municipal legal services on how to handle the interdict. “Our interest at this stage is to ensure that the programme is not derailed,” he said. Sbu Shezi, eThekwini’s acting head of legal services, confirmed that they were interdicted, and that they received the papers on Monday. “Blue Crane interdicted the city and the suppliers of the food parcels. They are contesting the process of awarding the tender and we are going to court on Monday. This is a hell of an inconvenience - dates have been issued to senior citizens. It’s going to be chaotic and this is the downside of this whole thing. “All that the companies care about is profit - they don’t care who is affected in the process of generating that profit. “This is a huge challenge because the programme has to stop with immediate effect after receiving the papers,” Shezi said. He said there was nothing much to say as this was now a court matter. The annual event, which received a R25 million budget this year, has been mired in controversy in past years. Last week, attempts by the opposition DA to have the event postponed fell flat at the executive committee meeting. Look The DA wanted the city to look into allegations of tender irregularities. More than 60 000 senior citizens in the metro’s 110 wards stand to receive refreshments, food parcels and “other” selected items. During last year’s event, cheap chicken imports from Brazil were reportedly supplied. Blue Crane Projects would not be drawn to comment on the interdict. When the Daily News reporter called the company, a woman who identified herself only as Veloshni said this was a court matter so she could not comment. A source close to the matter said the company was aggrieved because it was more than R1m cheaper than the bid-winning company, and met all the tender requirements. “The company was told that it did not win because it performed poorly last year. In their court papers, some compliance issues are raised against the winning supplier. “If you could make calculations of all the food parcels you’d see that sub-standard products are dished out to these people at a very low price. Who is benefiting from these tenders? One day the truth will come out,” said the source. Another losing bidder, Solid Communications and Consultants, supported the interdict. Company director Rochelle Davidson said her company was a little more than R3m cheaper than the winning bid. Davidson said she met all the specifications and requirements. “We are sidelined because we complain about flaws in the system, about undue processes and documents, and friends being awarded contracts,” she said.  chris.ndaliso@inl.co.za  Daily News