Neurosurgeon Dr Samesh Lachman used a revolutionary robotic microscope to operate on 60-year-old Edwin Steyn at Netcare St Augustine’s Hospital, making it the first time the innovative new generation technology was used in South Africa. “Neurosurgery is at the forefront of modern technology. It was very exciting as this equipment is very new internationally. It allows us to keep abreast of modern technology and gave us a glimpse into the future,” Lachman said. The German-made R10 million surgeon-controlled robotic visualisation system (Kinevo 900), was first showcased at the recent Society of Neurosurgeons of South Africa Congress in uMhlanga when the medical technology business group Zeiss introduced it to delegates. Lachman showed a keen interest in the device, which combines a multitude of innovations as well as the best of the digital and optical world into one fully integrated system, and the opportunity was taken to use it while it was in Durban. The new device was introduced to enable neurosurgeons to focus on surgery, while having as much information as possible. When they use a traditional surgical microscope, their view of the patient’s anatomy is limited to a straight line of sight, which means that there is the potential to miss critical information behind tissue or corners. When a brain tumour is removed for instance, the surgeon needs to check inside the cavity to ensure he has not missed anything. Now, the unique micro-inspection tool (a camera probe) on the Kinevo 900’s robotics microscope enables them to see around corners, difficult angles, blind spots and behind tissue, with the neurosurgeon using 3-D glasses and viewing high-resolution, digital images of the patient’s brain on a high-definition screen. Less invasive Traditionally, a surgeon would have to open up a wider area of the brain to see into difficult areas, but the effect of the new technology contributes to the surgery being less invasive and safer for the patient. It is also easier for the surgeon to operate as he is working with his head up looking at the extreme angles but with a wider view on the big screen. After Steyn collapsed at home, he became confused and suffered from dizziness and headaches and he was rushed to Margate Private Hospital, before being transferred in a semi-comatose condition to the brain and spinal centre at Netcare St Augustine’s Hospital after his condition deteriorated. With a blood clot on the brain, the pressure had to be removed in a routine neurosurgical operation. His son, Desmond, said that Lachman explained about the latest technology that would be used to make surgery easier for both surgeon and patient. “The doctor was wonderful and explained what the procedure would involve and I was very confident about it all,” he said. Although Lachman did not need to get into difficult-to-reach areas during Steyn’s operation, he was able to experience what the latest technology could do. “I was a bit guarded about what to expect, but the clarity was remarkable and much better than I expected. “This was a great opportunity and it was a privilege for me to be the first in the country to use this technology,” he said. Daily News