He shopped at a local supermarket in Waterloo, Verulam, and although his victims spotted him while shopping there on several occasions, he always managed to convince the local police that he was not the wanted serial rapist. His pictures had been circulated around Phoenix and Verulam, but it took intense investigations including the police at provincial and national levels, and the SAPS’s psychological unit, to link him to the rape cases. Bheki Doctor Magwaza, 47,  eventually pleaded guilty on Tuesday in the Durban High Court to 26 counts of rape. Read: Rapist receives 319-year prison term Warrant Officer Mdumiseni Bekwa, a member of the SAPS’s psychology section, who arrested Magwaza last year, said they analysed rape cases dating back to 2008. “We investigated the modus operandi used in these cases, and the dress code as described by the victims, and discovered that the work was indeed that of a serial rapist.” Magwaza had targeted couples and would force them to have sex at gunpoint while he watched. He would then force the male victim to watch while he raped the woman. He was linked through DNA evidence to rapes in Waterloo and KwaDabeka, and the attempted murder of a 15-year-old girl in 2015. Bekwa said yesterday that psychologically motivated cases were not easy to crack. Evidence “We had collected the DNA evidence and had fully profiled him, and the final breakthrough was to arrest him,” said Bekwa. One of the victims - a 14-year-old girl who took down the registration number of his vehicle after he raped her - helped the police to track him down. “We screened the vehicle details and found the owner. He supplied us with the information of the person to whom he had sold the vehicle,” said Bekwa. He described Magwaza as a ruthless man who lived in the community of Waterloo while continuing his rape spree. He said it was in September last year that they arrested Magwaza at his workplace in New Germany. “He committed his crimes while in full security uniform,” said Bekwa. A father of one of the victims told the Daily News that he was satisfied with the sentence. The man, whose daughter was raped by Magwaza in 2012, said she had spotted Magwaza at a supermarket in the area many times. “One day she showed me the man in the shop. We called the police, but he was not arrested.” A father of another victim said his daughter would never be the same again. She was 15 when she was attacked in 2015, and was shot three times by Magwaza. “I am worried about whether she will ever recover,” said 
the father. Daily News