Durban - With the festive season just around the corner and adults looking to enjoy themselves with a drink or two, there are some guidelines one has to adhere to in order to exercise drinking responsibly. In South Africa, the legal limit is a breath alcohol content of 0.24mg per 1 000ml or a blood alcohol limit of 0.05g per 100ml. The South African government says moderate alcohol consumption does not exceed two standard drinks, which is 340ml or a half quart of beer a day for women and no more than three standard drinks per day for men. According to SAB, the rule of thumb is a maximum of one unit of alcohol per hour, which constitutes 10ml of pure alcohol, based on an adult weighing 68kg. “Our bodies can process only one unit of alcohol each hour. Be aware that if you weigh less than 68kg your body will need more time to process the same amount of alcohol,” said a statement issued by SAB. Source: www.drinkaware.co.uk What is one unit?
It is equal to two thirds of a beer or spirit cooler with 5% alcohol content.
For those who drink wine, 75ml of red or white wine per hour with an alcohol content of 12% to 14% is acceptable.
Spirit drinkers can imbibe up to one 25ml tot of alcohol per hour.
Alcohol content is also expressed as a percentage of the whole drink. Look on a can of beer or a bottle of wine and you'll see either a percentage, followed by the abbreviation ‘ALC/VOL’ (alcohol by volume). Wine that says ‘13 ABV’ on its label contains 13% pure alcohol. Responsible drinking:  It is recommended that women and men should not exceed 14 units of alcohol per week, and it should be spread evenly across the week. “Alcohol significantly slows reaction time and distorts your vision, and the effects of a heavy night of drinking could well affect your driving ability the next morning, and you may still even be over the legal limit,” said Nirishi Trikamjee, SAB Corporate Affairs Director. Any quick-fix solutions to sober up, such as drinking coffee, taking a cold shower or drinking a litre of water before driving are myths. “Once the alcohol is in your system your liver is going to need time to process it, and restricting yourself to only one unit per hour is the only way to stay sober in the eyes of the law,” said Trikamjee. Eat first
If the stomach is full of food, then it takes longer for alcohol to get into the system. Studies have shown that eating food before drinking results in the blood alcohol level peaking at a lower value, which means that the effects of alcohol are felt to a lesser extent. Daily News