The Congella Park initiative, a pilot project for the homeless by the Umbilo Business Forum (UBF) and the eThekwini Parks and Recreation department, lifted off on Wednesday.  UBF spokesperson Ian Campbell-Gillies said the state of the Umbilo and Congella area left much to be desired.  “One of the major contributors to the degradation of the area is vagrancy and homelessness. Individuals prowl the streets for an opportunity to make an income whether it be a crime or a more socially responsible alternative, recycling,” Campbell-Gillies said.  The UBF intends opening a recycling collection point in the park. Campbell-Gillies said the recycling depot will allow people to carry on doing what they are already doing with the added benefit of  getting paid immediately.  “Recycling material will be packaged on site and stored in containers and then taken to a recycling plant. This will also prevent cardboard collectors from blocking stormwater drains when they wet the cardboard. This is ruining the water outflow infrastructure leading to flooding of businesses after rainfall,” Campbell-Gillies said.  The first phase of the project was to renew the park and develop food gardens on the grassed terraces.  Jennifer Rampersad, of the Parks and Recreation Department’s district 7, conducted an assessment of homelessness in urban parks and a case study on two other parks, Albert and Bulwer parks, which were rejuvenated.   She said residents who lived in the area were too afraid to walk through the parks because vagrants were frequently intoxicated and had no regard for the fauna and flora in the area.  Rampersad said that squatters in parks had become a problem because they did not have access to healthy living, which included housing, electricity, refuse removal, sanitation 
and water.  Campbell-Gillies said the number of homeless people in Congella Park had been reduced to 11. The role-players have trained and monitored them to develop the food gardens. The produce will be sold to local restaurants.  “The men will be employed at the new recycling facility. The current ablution facilities which were closed will be opened for them. They will be sheltered in better structures as opposed to the plastic tents they erected on the corner of the park, which is an eyesore.”  The municipality cleaned up and eliminated vagrancy, loitering and drug abuse in Albert Park through the Qalakabusha intervention programme. There was also intervention at Bulwer Park.  Campbell-Gillies said metro police were enforcing the by-laws daily.  City spokesperson Tozi Mthethwa said: “In an effort to root out crime and grime the city has intensified its operations to clean up areas that have been taken over by homeless people.” Daily News