Describing their experieces of the life sciences second paper exam, their faces lit up with smiles as many said it had been an easy paper, while others said it had been even easier than paper one. Don Colin Naidoo, twin brother to Donavan Naidoo, said their exam had served as testament to the sleepless nights, hard work and the dedication they’ve shown this year. “It was a very well-balanced, almost easy examination 
with a reasonable level of difficulty. “We’ve applied ourselves very well this year since we both have aspirations of going to university next year,” they said. The twins felt the exam had offered every pupil a passing opportunity. “Both papers were quite easy yet still maintained required standards. We studied together and helped each other with questions we did not understand. We now have a relationship that extends beyond blood.” Don, who received a bursary to further his studies next year, said he wanted to study electrical engineering, while his brother was opting for civil engineering. Their school considers both subjects essential and has  fully furnished laboratories and workshops to test and develop every pupil. Principal Yugan Naidoo said the teachers had gone beyond the call of duty to ensure pupils were more than ready for their exams. “Our pupils are exposed to some of the most learned teachers. “Despite all our challenges, which are not unique to Clairwood Secondary, we still strive for excellence. We hoping for a 100% pass rate this year,” Naidoo said. “Lessons were learner-centred and, where possible, opportunities are created to further enhance the world view of our pupils. We had several programmes in place to produce sound results for our pupils. “We had winter school, which catered for revision 
and afternoon classes which were always at full capacity,” he said. “Because of the skills shortage in our country, we encouraged pupils to take up technical subjects which provide better job security after Grade 12,” Naidoo said. Emilia Mwamba said the 
extra classes and study sessions with friends had proved 
useful. “Our teacher prepared us very well,” she said. Ayanda Maphumulo, who wants to study psychology at the University of KwaZulu-Natal, said she had enjoyed the exam, even though she had had difficulty with a some of the questions. “Past papers proved very useful in my study sessions,” she said. Fallon Kerri Buckley felt she had done well. “I studied from the beginning of the year. I enjoyed every section of the paper and didn’t face any problems.” Daily News