He will join the festivities at Growthpoint Kings Park Stadium for the Santa Run on Saturday. Originally a global concept, the Durban leg of the Santa Run is aimed at getting families out of the house and into the sunshine to enjoy a day of bonding, exercise, live marimba band music and a feel-good Christmas vibe. The 4km run/walk will explore the stadium in all its glory, and some of the exciting experiences along the route include walking through the Cell C Sharks players’ changerooms, running out of the tunnel on to the field and an obstacle course. At the finish line, there will be a variety of fun activities in a dedicated children’s play area, including face painting and interactions with Sharkie, the official Cell C Sharks mascot, and the team. The main kiddies’ attraction will be a fun, interactive session with Fireman Sam. The TV character has been dubbed the ultimate hero next door who teaches children the values of safety, rescue and the importance of community. The cartoon series, which started in Wales in 1985, continues to be top-rated globally, airing in more than 35 languages in 155 countries. Fireman Sam’s courage has inspired youngsters for more than three decades. He is an action hero everyone can relate to. Lessons from Fireman Sam on the day will teach children to be “cool and calm, no matter the alarm”. Remember, everyone who enters receives a gift. Children aged three to 12 get a toy delivered to their doorstep and teenagers (13+) receive a R50 voucher from The Kids Zone. To really ring in the Christmas cheer, Santa Claus will be waiting to take pictures with participants, while East Coast Radio DJ Jane Linley Thomas will keep you informed and entertained at the event.  *  Registration for the Santa Run is from 7am to 8.45am and the activities end at noon on Saturday. Pre-event entries cost R120 a person and include a gift. Free Santa hats will be given to the first 1000 entrants and a special Christmas cracker at the finish. A fun day will be hosted after the main event. Entries on the day are R140 a person. Bookings via www.thesantarun.co.za