The national finance portfolio committee member told the Daily News that the contingency reserve for disaster was “exhausted” and that it was used to bail out SAA. KZN Premier Willies Mchunu had declared certain locations as disaster areas after the storm. He had told the Daily News that since making submissions to the National Treasury, the matter was out of the provincial government’s hands. The National Treasury was supposed to release funds from the Contingency Disaster Relief Fund. Mchunu had said work to normalise the situation would commence once the funds were made available to the province. However, Lees said yesterday that the National Disaster Management Centre, which pumps funds to the disaster fund, only had an annual budget of R500 million. “In terms of the bigger picture, the country’s finances look grim and I don’t think we can afford R2 billion to fund the repairs, replacements and rehabilitation of the areas affected by the storm. “We don’t have money for the right things, yet we spend much for the wrong things. The government spent R10 billion on the Eskom bailout and R3.7 billion on the post office. And the Auditor-General also exposed R60 billion in irregular expenditure,” Lees said. He said the government was borrowing from banks worldwide annually and that the interest on those loans, plus salaries and wages were “almost half” the country’s revenue. “Thirteen percent in tax money goes to servicing the loans. This year alone, interest on those loans stands at R163billion. Staff salaries and social grants aren’t helping the situation. “The country is indeed in a difficult situation to navigate and our debt book is sitting at R2.294 trillion in the current financial year,” he said. The country’s GDP currently sits at R4.6trillion, and the National Treasury projects a revenue shortfall of R50.8bn in 2017/18. During his mid-term budget presentation recently, Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba said by 2020/21, nearly 15% of the main budget revenue would be spent on servicing debt. Attempts to get answers from the National Treasury for the past two weeks were unsuccessful.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Director for media management at the inter-governmental relations unit Ntsakisi Maswanganyi on Tuesday said the person at the unit who is in a position to provide answers was not available. The unit processes disaster emergencies. The storm battered KwaZulu-Natal, and eThekwini in particular, killing 36 people. After the storm, assessments were made by various departments and Mchunu declared certain parts of the province  disaster areas. On Friday, the Department of Co-Operative Government and Traditional Affairs launched its disaster fund account to enable donations from good Samaritans.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This despite the department having redirected R145.8m earmarked for disaster management to pay izinduna (headmen) salaries over the 2017/18, 2018/19 and 2019/20 financial years. Department spokesperson Lennox Mabaso said all departments would always have budget adjustments informed by various factors. Mchunu's spokesperson, Ndabezinhle Sibiya, said he was unaware that there were no funds to bail out the provincial government. “There’s an ongoing interaction between the stakeholders, and the provincial government will make an announcement in due course on the progress in sourcing the funds. This will be once all the processes are concluded,” Sibiya said.  Daily News