Saturday night’s smash at the intersection of Umgeni and Alpine roads caught the attention of the public because it was a known drag-racing hot spot. The crash claimed the lives of three of the VW Polo’s occupants, KwaDabeka friends Andile Wiseman Masondo, 34, Nontobeko Pretty Sindane, 42, and Sylvia Mouriri Motsilisi, 40. The driver, Mzamo Zulu, is recovering in Addington Hospital. He did not want to speak to the media. Mark Weineck, 50, the driver of the ST, speaking from his hospital bed in Addington, claimed he left Intersite Avenue with a friend’s son and they were heading home. As he went around a bend he caught a glimpse of a car turning in front of him, and before he knew it he was in the culvert. He remembers paramedics around him, and then waking up in hospital. He denied claims that he was drag racing. Weineck, who lives on the Durban beachfront, suffered a fractured sternum and a broken ankle, and scratches on his wrists, knee and chin. Weineck has not been charged, although Mayville police are investigating a case of culpable homicide. Police have viewed the CCTV footage of the crash and will submit the docket for a decision to be made by the public prosecutor. The 15-year-old boy who was with Weineck is in Albert Luthuli Central Hospital in critical condition. The Daily News showed Weineck footage of the incident circulating on social media. He seemed shocked. He said he did not want to see pictures of the car he was driving.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “I want to recover from my injuries and hope to get discharged from hospital soon. I have been told by the police that people have died. My condolences to the families who lost their loved ones. “It was not my fault and I hope to meet and sympathise with the families,” he said. Video footage shows the Polo turning from Umgeni Road towards Intersite Avenue. The headlights of three cars can be seen coming around the bend along Umgeni Road travelling towards Durban before the traffic signal. In a split second one of the cars goes through the intersection, narrowly missing the Polo. The Polo moves forward. The ST slams into the Polo, between its fender and passenger door. Debris flies off the Polo and leaves a trail of sparks as it skitters on the road’s surface several metres from the impact. The Polo’s engine was found lying in the middle of the road. The body of one of the passengers in the Polo can be seen flying out of the car as it spins. The impact of the collision sends the ST spinning on to the pavement, churning up sand and dust, and sliding backwards into the stormwater culvert 10 metres below the roadway. The third car drives through as debris rains down on it, damaging the windscreen and bonnet. The Polo slides backwards and then comes to a halt on the side of the road. Daily News