Durban - The eThekwini Municipality has won an Honorary Climate and Clean Air Award for its Durban Landfill Conservancies project by the Climate and Clean Air Coalition in Bonn. Tozi Mthethwa, eThekwini spokeswoman said, “The project is a successful landfill that reduces emissions of methane, provides safe waste disposal, employs workers from surrounding communities, and produces electricity for the local grid. Its landfill gas project was the first in Africa and is still one of the most successful in the world. The project has also provided assistance to several other countries and cities within and outside Africa, proving the learning role that Durban is playing in the global arena.” Zandile Gumede the Mayor of eThekwini said winning the award is a proud moment for Durban and the eThekwini Municipality. “Durban’s recent winning streak is indicative of the world class city that we are. Our officials are experts in the field and our global partnerships and networks mean that there is continuous sharing and learning of best practise. Being bestowed this award, shows that Durban is serious about climate change and cares about the impacts it has on the community. By making changes to the way we operate and by reducing our carbon footprint, we are leading by example and building a new resilient city. By employing and empowering nearby communities the city is not only creating employment but developing an army of green warriors that will spread the message at grassroots level. Well done to the team.” Mthethwa said the Climate and Clean Air Awards recognise exceptional contributions and actions to implement projects, programmes, policies and practices that reduce short-lived climate pollutants (SLCPs), such as black carbon, methane, hydrofluorocarbons and tropospheric ozone. Reducing these dangerous air and climate pollutants is key to improving air quality, slowing the rate of climate change and provides multiple benefits for health, ecosystems and the sustainable development goals. “The Durban Landfill Conservancies project shows the potential that well managed waste systems have for reducing short-lived climate pollutants. Proper waste collection reduces waste burning that emits black carbon and other toxic pollutants into the atmosphere. Methane emissions from municipal solid waste are responsible for 11 percent of all man made methane emissions. According the International Energy Agency landfill gas is typically 60 percent methane and 40 percent carbon dioxide (CO2). Methane is at least 23, and up to 32, times more powerful than CO2 at atmospheric warming,” said Mthethwa. “In Durban methane is extracted from the landfill and used to run generators that produce electricity for the local grid reducing its impact on the climate and providing a cleaner energy source. To date Durban’s landfills have avoided approximately 2.5 million tons of CO2 equivalent emissions. It has also benefitted local air quality by reducing emissions of harmful gases,” continued Mthethwa. She said the improved landfills have also prevented liquid runoff from polluting groundwater, reduced odour and prevented the breeding of disease carrying animals like flies and rats. Green areas filled with indigenous plants create buffer zones surrounding the landfill and some 700 000 trees have been planted. Unfortunately for eThekwini, groundWork does not think the city deserving of the award. Rico Euripidou, Environmental Health Campaign Manager at groundWork, said that the eThekwini Municipality has ignored air quality and the award they received is also for air quality, which is a contradiction. “Since 2009, the eThekwini Municipality has not been monitoring the air quality. They are neglecting public health. Having methane gas is a failure,” said Euripidou. Euripidou said groundWork feels that this is a mischievous statement by the city. “The best practice is having no waste in the first place. So having methane gas is a failure. There should be a zero waste policy,” continued Euripidou. He went on to say that although eThekwini has recycling policies, some of the waste gets dumped at the same place. So there is a failure at waste management and air quality and receiving the award is a big sham. Daily News