Durban - A bodyguard was gunned down in an apparent hit in Caluza in Pietermaritzburg on Wednesday. Mhlabunzima Mngoma had been employed as a bodyguard for Jabu Ngubo, Msunduzi Municipality speaker. Police spokesperson, Colonel Thembeka Mbhele, said Mngoma was seated inside a municipal car, parked on Mazambane Road when he was accosted by a group of men. “The men opened fire on the car and and they fled the scene. He was taken to hospital with multiple gunshot wounds where he was pronounced dead on arrival,” she said. Mbhele said the motive of the killing is being investigated. “A case of murder was opened at Plessislaer police station and docket will be investigated by the Provincial Task Team,” she said. Meanwhile, Mxolisi Kaunda,  MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison  has condemned the the murder of a Department of Transport employee while he was on duty in Mahlabathini near Ulundi on Tuesday. Muntuwenkosi Shange, was a Field Support Officer in Mahlabathini, responsible for road maintenance.  It is alleged that Shange had gone on site visit to check on a grader when he was shot at by unknown men. The suspects fled the scene with the Department’s vehicle. Shange succumbed to gunshot wounds at A-Section clinic in Ulundi. Kaunda has expressed his heartfelt condolences to the family of Shange and urged the police to work around the clock and bring suspects responsible for this gruesome murder to book. “It is unacceptable that criminals rob us of our hard working and dedicated public servants. The attack of civil servant in the line of duty is unfortunate and must be condemned in the strongest possible terms as it hampers service delivery,”  Kaunda said. In the same area, two female traffic officers were hijacked while conducting an operation on R34 in Emakhosini. The suspects also fled with a service firearm of one of the officers. Kaunda has urged members of the public who may have witnessed both incidents to provide the police with information. He also called upon the staff members, particularly those who are always on the field to be vigilant of criminals especially as we are approaching the festive season. “I have asked the police to intensify visibility in this area as it appears to be a hot spot,” said Kaunda. Daily News