Durban - Philip Sithole, eThekwini Municipality Head of Tourism sought the city’s blessing to engage with Americans with the view of bringing the Essence Festival to the city in the next three years. Presenting to the executive committee sitting at the city hall yesterday, Sithole said the projections show that the Essence concept had drawn 153 572 people compared to 88 907 who attended last year. Sithole said the live event at ICC was attended by 70, 072, about 10 000 more compared to last year. He said the return on investment was R291 million and some of the elements of the event were broadcast live reaching 64 million people globally. “We would like to engage with Essence in discussion so that when we meet next year we bring a full report on what is to be expected in the future. Once we have those engagements with Essence only then that we will be able to provide a detailed report on what to happen in the next three years,” Sithole said. Among those present at the meeting were artist representatives and the Durban Chamber of Commerce chief Dumile Cele.
Cele said there was a need for the city to continue investing in Essence. “It would be very short sighted of this exco to look into rands and cents in the short term. The continuation of this festival in Durban would benefit future generations to come. I really hope that as exco you do not doubt the potential that this festival has. Americans are our second biggest trading partner, they were the first but China has overtaken them. You have started an amazing thing (Essence), it’s a brand and it needs to be well packaged because as America is looking for business partners, we could be just that through this festival. Our businesses are benefiting and it would be irresponsible of this Exco to ignore this opportunity,” Cele said. DA leader Zwakele Mncwango protested the call to have the Festival for the next three years. “We can’t you focus on empowering local artists by coming up with local ideas? I dont believe that the annual fee of R5 million is justifiable if you were to take local artists to perform at the festival. The amount you pay for international artists, are you paying locals that much as well? We can’t support this presentation and the proposal for further engagements to have the festival here in the next three years,” Mncwango said. Sithole shot back at Mncwango saying it was short-sighted of him to ask for a local concept while wanting Durban to be a global player. “Look if you want to attract Japanese will you go and and advertise on Ukhozi FM? To be a global player you need to cast your net abroad. You can’t expect Americans to come to Durban when you only have local Maskandi performing. Cape Town brings in overseas artists so I don’t see why Durban can’t do the same,” Sithole said. Mayor Zandile Gumede assured the councillor that a decision on Sithole’s recommendation for the engagement with the Essence will be made, and it would be a positive one. She congratulated Sithole and his team for the “job well done”. Daily News