Past luminaries include Dr John Mavuma Nembula himself (the first black physician in southern Africa) while others - like ANC presidential hopeful Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, former Zambian president Kenneth Kaunda and former Zimbabwean president Robert Mugabe - were schooled nearby. So when the class of 2017 sat for their history paper 2 on Tuesday, which focuses on South African history, they were acutely aware of those who went before them. And this fact made the paper even more enjoyable, they said. Pupil Sihle Mkhize said the paper was “nicely set” and he did not experience any challenges he could not overcome. “I knew most of the things which came out in the paper. We have been preparing for these exams since the beginning of the year and attended afternoon classes just to make sure we were sufficiently prepared,” said Sihle. “Studying past exam papers has been very useful as most of the information needed today was covered by them.”  Nombuso Mthembu, who wants to become a teacher, said the exam was everything she had prepared for. “Our paper had very easy questions, which hardly gave me any challenges. It had everything for everyone which made it enjoyable to write,” she said. Nombuso said her decision to choose history as a subject had been influenced by the deep, rich narrative the area already enjoyed, which she said has been embedded in their classrooms as well. “I feel very proud coming from a place which has produced so many prominent world leaders who defied the odds, and changed the face of our future - and that of our country and continent - through their selfless struggles. “They continue to put Adams Mission on the map today,” said Nombuso. Sipho Mhlongo attributed his good performance to the selfless dedication his teachers said he had shown during the course of the year. “What made these examination easy was the diligence and zeal our educators showed. They bent back and forth to make sure we were prepared,” he said. Sipho said the future of this country depended a lot on how history was being viewed and used as a tool to create social cohesion and unity. “As a person living in 
Adams Mission I’m reminded every day of the rich history this place has, and that I walk on the ground which was once travelled by our Struggle heroes and heroines,” he said. Noxolo Cele, who shared the same sentiments as her peers, felt the time allocated for the exam was more than enough and that it was “a walk in the park”. “I was expecting challenges...  I was able to answer every question with ease. “It’s important to learn in a school that enjoys so much history. I’m reminded of the success of those who came before me, and that really does require one to always give their level best,” said Noxolo The school enjoys good results in history, having recorded a 95% pass rate in the subject last year. Principal Lindani Dludla said the school was fortunate to be named after such a powerful figure who made history in South Africa and the world. “We have an excellent history teacher who made sure our pupils were equipped with every tool necessary to see them through these exams,” said Dludla. Dludla said the school recognised the history rooted in Adams Mission, noting the memorial lecture of the late Dr Nembula as one of the celebrations the school engaged in as a way of recognising and honouring local leaders. Daily News * Click here to win amazing prizes by signing up to receive your Matric Results via IOL.