Callula is one of 16 pupils at the school who wrote isiZulu paper 3 yesterday. The 17-year-old said she challenged herself to learn the language. Callula felt the exam was well-balanced and had something for everyone. “Everything I had prepared for came out in the paper. The section I enjoyed the most was the transactional section. isiZulu is an interesting language, enjoyable and easier than I had imagined,” said Cullula. The other pupils said they felt the exam was fair and gave everybody a chance to pass. They said they were lucky to be South Africans, part of a diverse country with 11 official languages. Jehnara Naidoo felt the exam was fair and accessible. “As a non-Zulu-speaking person it is a morale booster for me that I was able to get through and finish the exam. Everything we had prepared together with our isiZulu teacher came out in the exam and I’m grateful for everything she has done in preparing us,” said Jehnara.  Sandhya Ramcharrun felt the exam offered equal passing opportunities and also commended her teacher for doing a sterling job in preparing everyone. “I enjoyed the paper very much and transactional questions (letters, speeches, interviews, the postcard) were my favourite. "Our teacher made a huge effort in preparing everyone and I am really grateful for everything she has done for us,” Sandhya said. The pupils said the class enabled them to understand and communicate better in Zulu.  Siyethaba Ngubane, who has since the beginning of the year obtained distinctions in isiZulu, felt the exam was easy for Zulu-speaking pupils. “The exam was pretty much straightforward. It was really proper isiZulu which I believe might have given non-isiZulu speaking pupils challenges, but nothing our teacher did not prepare us for,” said Siyethaba. Zuziwe Mdladla, head of isiZulu at the school, expressed her joy after her pupils had finished writing their exam. “They have been committed in their studies and went beyond to seek extra material to further enrich their knowledge of the language. All have shown the expected competency in speaking and understanding the language,” said Mdladla. Daily News * Click here to win amazing prizes by signing up to receive your Matric Results via IOL.