Vandals ripped apart and stole several brass plates from the landmark war memorial near the city hall last week. The plates bear the names of the Durban dead killed in the wars. On Sunday, Colonel Pat Acutt, senior staff officer of the Defence Reserves, who said police were following up several leads, discovered that several other plates were loose and asked metro police to guard the area overnight until a solution to the problem was found by city management today. The city was attending to this urgently ahead of the Remembrance Day Service yesterday, Tozi Mthethwa, eThekwini Municipality spokesperson, had said yesterday. Mthethwa said the city was exploring solutions including wider closed-circuit television reach in Farewell Square as well as the possible replacement of brass plaques with another less valuable material. People caught defacing statues would be prosecuted for malicious damage to municipal property, she said. It is not known when the thefts happened but it is believed that the plates were stolen to be sold as scrap metal. Nine of the stolen plates were on walls that surround the Durban City Cenotaph, on the western side of the city hall. A 10th plate was removed from the front of the plinth.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Four brass cappings from a dome were also vandalised and stolen and several other plates were damaged during attempts to remove them with a crowbar. The area is used by vagrants during most of the year, but is spruced up ahead of the Armistice Day Commemorations and in July to commemorate the Battle of Delville Wood, which was fought in France by, among others, South African soldiers. Johann Kruger, the secretary of the Durban branch of the SA Legion, said they had opened a case at the Durban Central police station. There was mixed reaction to the theft on the SA Legion Facebook page. Anthony Vasco Salgado wrote: "Here in Klerksdorp they stole all the cast-iron crosses off the graves of the British who died in the Boer War ( politically correct “The South African War”). It’s got nothing to do with anything except greed of the thieves and corrupt metal salvagers.” Quentin David Gibson said: “It was several years ago that the one plaque of names on the Pietermaritzburg Memorial Arch was removed. To preserve the other plaque, it was removed and is stored where it is safe. They have been replaced by nondescript plastic plaques, which makes the arch look better, but has lost the historical value of it."