Gillian Meier Mattern, head of maths at the school, said the school had done an excellent job in preparing pupils. “This year most of them managed very well in the last question, which usually gives many problems. We had constant revision and winter school during the July holidays. The pupils have been applying themselves with discipline and constant effort, which I’m sure will produce even greater results,” Mattern said. The private school is regulated and assessed by the Independent Examinations Board (IEB). Answer Cailin Donachie said the exam was very manageable. “I didn’t find it difficult at all since I was well prepared. The hard questions, which are usually at the end, I was able to answer with ease. Those that required more time, I revisited after answering those I felt were easy,” said Cailin. “I used a lot of trial exam papers and different questions which I sourced from past-year papers,” she said. Melo Shangase said she found the paper balanced, with its fair share of challenges. “The paper did have a few challenges, all of which we were prepared for by our mathematics teacher,” she said. “I had a file of past-year papers and also engaged in study sessions with friends. We also covered a lot of hard questions and had the advantage of many great minds working on similar problems,” Melo said. Jamie Gerterbach said the exam was good and challenging. “It was a good exam, way better than trials. We had more than enough time to answer every question and I would like to thank the dedicated maths department for working tirelessly in preparing us for these exams,” she said. Kiara Munsamy shared her friends’ sentiments. “The exam was well prepared and challenged us. I think it wasn’t that bad, but I was very cautious about the time allocated since it was the only factor which could affect my results,” she said. Jenna de Fleuriot dela 
Coliniere thanked the school for offering extra learning programmes which she said 
played a very instrumental role. “Extra lessons that were organised by the school proved very useful,” she said. Last year, the IEB pass rate for matrics was 98.67%. Daily News