DURBAN - Hip-hop star AKA has gone on a massive rant against national carrier, South African Airway calling their staff "rude" and vowing never to fly with them again. In a 409 word tirade, the award winning artist, whose name is Kiernan Jarryd Forbes told his Instagram followers that his problems started a few months ago with a flight to Munich. "As usual, I decided to fly SAA to my destination. I was jolted out of my seat and out of my sleep by a particularly rude woman. There's something about being woken up with a big shock that really rattles you and gets your day off to a terrible start. I decided from that moment that I would try by all means to never @flysaa EVER again," he said. "Now, i understand that SAA is in financial trouble etc and all that stuff but good service costs absolutely nothing. I didn't even have the energy to complain because I felt that it wouldn't even make a difference. The national carrier is supposed to be a source of pride. It's supposed to make you feel welcome when you return home from overseas and make you feel valued as a South African. It is for this reason that I was shocked to learn that SAA had made foreigners the faces of their voyager campaign instead of using prominent South Africans such as myself and others. I was inspired to write this post because I have just finished flying @emirates to New York and back home, and I was struck by the warmth, professionalism and service on this airline and started wondering what the excuse was for all the bad experiences I have had on SAA".  "It was also CHEAPER to fly @emirates FIRST CLASS than to @flysaa BUSINESS CLASS to New York  ... 80% of the staff I've dealt with on SAA are friendly and go beyond the call of duty to do their job professionally, however the other 20% is giving this airline a terrible name. Crew that literally smack your seat back into position as the plane enters final decent. In the middle of a long haul flight, crew that make you feel they are doing you a favor by getting you a drink or a snack late at night. As a patriot, and as a supporter of all things South African, I want to take pride in our national carrier and support it as a person who travels a lot. So come ON @flysaa, do better ... make us proud instead of forcing us to go elsewhere with our hard earned money.  This isn't about food or wifi but about taking your people for granted. You represent our country to the world. Make us proud again."
Earlier this year, the rapper's girlfriend, Bonang Matheba complained about the food on SAA.
Here is the Twitter exchange. Daily News