Researchers at Kaspersky Lab’s Global Research and Analysis Team in Russia said that a regional Ukrainian website had been hacked and used to distribute the ransomware to visitors. Kaspersky estimated that there had been more than 2000 attacks, linked to a version of malware called Petya - 60% of them in Ukraine and 30% in Russia. But Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said “no serious problems” had occurred as a result of the cyber attacks. Peskov also said he had no accurate information on the origin of the attacks. But the damage was worst in the Ukraine and some Ukranian officials had initially expressed suspicions that the attacks originated from Russia. The hacks targeted government ministries, banks, utilities and other important infrastructure and companies nationwide, demanding ransoms from the institutions in the cryptocurrency bitcoin. The virus even downed systems at the site of the former Chernobyl nuclear power plant, forcing scientists to monitor radiation levels manually. Yesterday, Danish shipping giant AP Moller-Maersk said it was working to restore its operations a day after being hit by the cyber attack. Maersk handles one in every seven containers shipped worldwide. Cyber attacks also spread as far as India and the US, where the pharmaceutical giant Merck reported that “our company’s computer network was compromised today as part of a global hack”. France’s biggest bank, BNP Paribas, said yesterday its real estate unit had also been hit. Researchers say the virus used an “exploit” developed by the US National Security Agency that was later leaked on to the internet by hackers. Mark Graff, the chief executive of Tellagraff, a cyber security 
company, said: “The emergence of Petya and WannaCry really points out the need for a response plan and a policy on what companies are going to do about ransomware in the future.” WannaCry was the ransomware used in last month’s attack. The attack mainly targeted Eastern Europe, but also hit companies in Spain, Denmark, Norway and Britain. Victims included the British advertising and marketing multinational, WPP. India’s biggest container port was also crippled when a Maersk-run terminal in Mumbai was hit. Variants of Petya, like WannaCry, are worms that spread quickly to vulnerable systems, said Bill Wright, senior policy counsel for Symantec, the world’s largest cyber security firm. Its pervasiveness was what made it difficult to control - or to aim it at anyone in particular - he said. The Washington Post