Frustrated Metrorail commuters went on a rampage, damaging and looting shops at Cape Town Station on Monday night. And things are not looking good for Metrorail commuters this morning. Metrorail said there were several cancellations on the Central, Northern, Cape Flats and Southern line "due to sets out of service" and delays of 30 to 40 minutes. "The torching of two trains at Cape Town station impacts the train service. Platform 15 and 16 are currently out of service for train operations. Commuters are advised to listen for platform changes via the public address system and view changes on the electronic display boards," Metrorail said. Police were called to maintain order after hundreds of commuters were left stranded on Monday. Metrorail’s electrical power feeds experienced difficulties, leading to major delays experienced on Monday afternoon. Metrorail spokesperson Riana Scott said between 3pm and 7pm two of the four feeds were unavailable due to problems experienced. She said Metrorail usually has four 11kv power feeds available to it to operate the train service. “The remaining two feeds were overloaded, tripping electricity and halting trains all over the network. The defective power feed at Maitland in particular affected all routes and ruled out the usual contingency of manual authorisation due to the high volume of trains on the network during peak. Some trains were delayed more than two hours,” she said. Scott said technicians were working across the network trying to restore power as soon as possible. “Golden Arrow Bus Service are permitting Metrorail weekly and monthly ticket holders this evening on routes operated by them and will continue operating until all commuters have been cleared,” she said. Regional manager Richard Walker apologised to affected customers but condemned the destruction of property. "We acknowledge that commuters were aggrieved but no amount of inconvenience warrants such behaviour". He said surveillance footage would be studied with the intention to file malicious damage to property charges. Technicians managed to restored power feeds at 8.52pm and trains were starting to operate.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Cape Times