Two people were seriously injured on Wednesday - one a metered taxi driver who was shot while waiting to pick up passengers at Menlyn Mall. The driver is fighting for his life in hospital. In another incident, a metered taxi was set alight just as it dropped off a passenger in Sunnyside. The vehicle was set alight, apparently with a petrol bomb while the driver and his brother were still inside the car. Both made it out of the vehicle alive, but the driver was taken to hospital to get checked for possible smoke inhalation. The attack on the vehicle was suspected to be retaliation from metered taxi drivers, one of whom was shot earlier on the day. However, secretary at the Gauteng Meter Taxi Council Hendrick Ndou couldn’t confirm that the attack on the vehicle was by other metered taxi drivers or not. “I understand that there are disputes between e-hailing taxis and us but I cannot say for sure who attacked who. One of our drivers was shot and is in hospital but I can’t point the incident to Uber drivers. “Furthermore, a metered taxi was hijacked in Braamfontein and found burnt at Mooikloof and we are not pointing any fingers even with our misunderstanding with e-hailing drivers,” he said. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Lungelo Dlamini said they were investigating two incidents where drivers were attacked and assaulted. “A case of malicious damage to property and assault with grievous bodily harm has been opened but no arrests have been made yet,” he said. Both attacks occurred a day before metered taxi drivers planned to march and protest at the Gautrain head office. Drivers aimed to hand 
over a memorandum of demand to Gautrain management. The memorandum was meant to demand that Gautrain management prevent Uber drivers from operating at their stations. “Everyone knows our issues with Uber and right now we just want Gautrain management to stop Uber drivers from picking up and dropping off passengers at their stations,” a metered taxi operator said. However, permission for the march was denied by the Joburg Metro Police, who said it didn’t meet the seven-day notice period of intention to march. Drivers resorted to holding a meeting in Centurion. “We had a meeting and handed over a memorandum of demands to the Department of Transport’s executive director Piet Mahlangu,” Ndou said. The memorandum de-
manded that Uber taxis stop operating with immediate effect until the two parties reached common ground. “We need to sit together as metered and e-hailing taxis to understand how each of us work in order for us to complement each other on our work and have a common understanding,” he said. Daily News