This was the warning the municipality issued after a Daily News inquiry into the evictions of about 40 families who were illegally occupying vacant land at Blink Bonnie Road in Bonela. The residents were adamant they would not move, saying they would rather die there because they had nowhere else to go. The community had set up shack structures on a piece of land inside the forest area since January this year and on several occasions, including this past weekend, their shacks were demolished and burnt with their belongings inside. One of the residents, Nompilo Ngubane, was arrested on Saturday and charged with public violence. She was released on R500 bail and appeared in the Durban Magistrate’s Court yesterday. When the Daily News visited the community on Monday it found burnt shacks, mattresses, clothes and stoves, and food scattered. Ngubane said after their shacks were burnt on Friday, she went back to salvage what was left from the fire when the security guards accompanied by police arrived. “I was with other women trying to recover our belongings when they came. They ordered us to leave the place. The security guards started chasing us. “They managed to grab me and arrested me,” she said. The mother of two from KwaMaphumulo, in northern KwaZulu-Natal, said she arrived in Durban three years ago to look for jobs, but the small jobs of cleaning houses and washing paid little money, and she no longer could afford rent at the tin house they were living in. She said most of the people lived in the tin houses and, after they were removed, saw an opportunity to have shelter on a vacant piece of land inside the forest. “This is not the life I prefer for myself and this forest is definitely not an ideal home for raising my children, but I do not have a choice,” she said. Ngubane said she lost everything in the fire. Unauthorised Tozi Mthethwa, municipal spokesperson, said the municipality’s Land Invasion Unit was acting within the law as its main function was to control, monitor and prevent any illegal erection and unauthorised building. It was also mandated to stop and discourage people who attempted to illegally occupy land. “This is in fairness to the majority of law- abiding citizens who are patiently waiting to be allocated homes. The council adopted a zero-tolerance approach to land invasion and is committed to putting an end to this practice,” she said. Mthethwa said the municipality had a housing backlog of 400000 units still to be built, and this number would continue to spike if they did not take decisive action to prevent the mushrooming of a new informal settlement. According to community leader Thulani Zondi, the police attacked the residents again on Sunday evening when they found them in the forest. Zondi claimed the police fired gunshots and ordered them to leave the area at about 10pm. He said they were forced to rebuild the shacks each time on the same area because they had nowhere else to go. Mthethwa said eradicating informal settlements required a joint effort from the public, and urged people to contact the municipality’s security management unit at 0313114699.