Gregory Govender, the owner of Sagekal Logistics, entered into a plea and sentencing agreement with the State yesterday in the Verulam Magistrate’s Court. Karen Janisch, of Fields Hill Helping Hands, a support group for the families of the crash victims, said she and the families were disappointed at the justice system for failing them and the victims. She said R25000 would not give the families justice or compensate for their loss or make their pain better. “I am planning a meeting with the families to discuss where to from here. We are not going to take this lightly; we are going to take it further. The families are still hurting.” Janisch said what made the pain unbearable for the families was the fact that Govender had never apologised. “He has never come forward and showed remorse or even tried to compensate the families. He showed no compassion. This is a very sad day for the families.” In terms of the plea and sentence agreement, Govender pleaded guilty to the contravention of the National Road Traffic Act regarding the roadworthiness of the truck and the trailer that was involved in the crash, and was sentenced to a R10000 fine or 12 months’ imprisonment. He was further sentenced to a R10000 fine, or 12 months’ imprisonment, for contravention of the act in terms of the duties of an operator for failing to conduct his operations with due care to public safety. He also pleaded guilty to contravening the Immigration Act, for employing a driver, Sanele May, who was in the country illegally. He was fined R5000 or six months’ imprisonment. The charges against his company, Sagekal Logistics, were withdrawn because the company was subject to liquidation proceedings and was insolvent. Advocate Moipone Noko, the provincial Director of Public Prosecutions, welcomed the sentence, saying she hoped it would serve as a warning to transport operators to ensure their vehicles were roadworthy. “Truck accidents contribute significantly to the carnage on our roads,” said Noko. The sentence, however, did not go down well with May’s supporters, who took to the Support Sanele May Facebook page to express their disappointment. Peach Piche, the group founder, said the fine should have included compensation for the families of the crash victims. “It is not fair that he (May) got 10 years in jail and Govender got such a light fine,” Piche said. May had entered into a plea and sentence agreement with the State in November 2014. He pleaded guilty to 24counts of culpable homicide as well as charges of fraud, entering South Africa illegally, being in possession of fake driver’s licences, operating a vehicle without a valid professional driving permit and failing to comply with a road traffic sign. Piche said they were aware of the fact that Govender’s trial was separate from May’s matter and that its outcome would not affect May’s sentence, but they expected a better apportioning of the blame and some sort of justice for all those affected. “At least he has his life and his freedom and can rebuild. Others do not have that privilege,” she said. She said the fine was not enough of a deterrent to teach other truck owners a lesson to maintain their vehicles to avoid such incidents. She would visit May this weekend and tell him about Govender’s sentence. A disappointed member of the group, Jacki Dryer van Zyle, posted: “Very sad and unfair. Law and justice shouldn’t be in same sentence. Sickening and truck owners won’t flinch at such a meagre fine. Cheaper to risk the fine than roadworthy their trucks. Very sad indeed.” Daily News