Durban -The owner of the truck that crashed into several vehicles on Field’s Hill killing 24 people has entered into a plea agreement with the State that will see him do no jail time. Gregory Govender, the owner of Sagekal Logistics, will under the plea and sentence agreement, pay a combined fine of R25 000. The National Prosecuting Authority said on Monday that it had entered into a plea and sentence agreement with Govender’s legal team under Section 105A of the Criminal Procedure Act 51 of 1977. Govender plead guilty to Contravention of the National Road Traffic Act regarding the roadworthiness of the truck and the trailer that was involved in the crash, contravening the act in terms of the duties of an operator; this is where the operator of a motor vehicle is expected to conduct his operations with due care to public safety. The fourth charge is a contravention of the Immigration Act and relates to the employment of the driver of the truck who was illegally in the country. “For counts 1 and 2 (taken as one for the purpose of sentencing), the accused was sentenced to a fine of R10 000 or twelve months imprisonment. He was further sentenced to a fine of R10 000 or twelve months imprisonment for count 3 and a fine of R5 000 or six months imprisonment for count 4,” the NPA said in a statement. In September 2013, Govender’s truck, driven by Swazi national, Sanele May, skipped a red traffic light after the brakes had failed and crashed into several vehicles at a major intersection on Fields Hill killing 24 people. May, who pleaded guilty to the charges against him currently serving his 10-year sentence at Umzinto Prison. According to the NPA, the charges against Sagakel Logistics were withdrawn as the company is currently subject to liquidation proceedings and is insolvent. The KZN Director of Public Prosecutions Advocate Moipone Noko in a statement said: “We welcome the sentence and hope it serves as a warning to transport operators to ensure that their vehicles are roadworthy. Truck accidents contribute significantly to the carnage on our roads”. Daily News