DURBAN - Oliver Meth was just 16 years old when he had to recount to police how a man had raped him. Meth, covered in blood, walked into the police station and told officers that he was robbed of his cellphone, wallet and clothing and then raped in a graveyard by one of his attackers. A police officer tapped his fingers and sighed during the entire interview. Meth, now 31, believes because of this attitude from the police, hundreds of crimes go unreported, more especially in cases of same-sex rape. Speaking to the Daily News, Meth said more needed to be done to create awareness about what victims from the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex (LGBTI) community had to endure when reporting crimes against them to police. More needs to be done, especially for gay men and women in this country. Forums and campaigns such as 16 Days of Activism do not address these issues, Meth said. Men are always shunned in these forums and it creates a negative society perspective of male rape and hate crimes against the LGBTI community. There are very few, if any, organisations which have taken up the cause for men and boys. Most organisations don t provide counselling, give legal advice or information for men. Not only do male rape survivors report a lack of services and support, but the legal system is ill-equipped to deal with this type of crime. Inconsistent definitions of rape, different rates of reporting, recording, prosecution and conviction for male rape create controversial statistical disparities, said Meth. Anthony Waldhausen, director of the Gay and Lesbian Network, said there was a large percentage of victims who did not report their attacks. He was speaking before the Love Not Hate Campaign press conference on Friday, which aims to tackle the issue of hate crimes against the LGBTI community. Waldhausen will also unpack the research report on hate crimes in South Africa.According to the report, 2130South Africans participated in the study. Of these, 1165 identified as gay, 687 as lesbian, 216 bisexuals and 285 as transgender. The respondents were from all over South Africa, and were 16years and older (with 63% of them between the ages of 16 and 29). In KwaZulu-Natal, 79% of pupils claimed to have experienced discrimination because of their sexual orientation. Waldhausen said it was concerning to note the number of people who refused to open cases against their perpetrators. People are often reluctant to go to police for fear of victimisation. We have invited various stakeholders to our press conference and we are hoping to engage on how to deal with these cases better. We want to create awareness around hate crimes against the LGBTI community, he said. Waldhausen said he was hopeful of a positive outcome. Martin Meyer, a DA councillor, said they had received a number of complaints from victims, who felt they were not safe when reporting their attacks. We have started a LGBTI task team in the province and one of our projects is to visit police stations from where we have received these reports, and engage with station commanders. Like we have officers specially trained to deal with sexual crimes against women, there needs to be officers who can deal with hate crimes, be it sexism, racism or crimes against the LGBTI community, he said.Daily News