The party’s leadership was also challenged to close the gap between policy statements and implementation, and to do away with destructive factionalism. The branch also suggested that the NEC needed new faces and that members should serve a maximum of three terms, with 40% of the spaces being retained for continuity purposes. The branch said it wanted to see the best cadres deployed to drive policies, and that the NEC was too large and difficult to manage. “Its numbers must be reduced in order to be more effective and more NEC members must be full-time to focus on ANC organisational matters, because currently almost the entire NEC are in government. “We also want to see more new faces on the NEC because being an NEC member is not a lifelong position,” said branch chairperson Visvin Reddy. He said the branch wished that delegates attending the conference would make “every attempt” to bring unity within the organisation. “Factional battles are going to destroy this organisation and in Chatsworth the support for the ANC is dropping fast, and all the negative publicity is not helping us,” Reddy said. He said the ANC’s policy spoke of free education, particularly for the poor, yet ­Chatsworth had many poor families, while not a single school was a no-fee school. “There is a huge gap between policy statements and policy implementation,” said Reddy. “Those comrades who are deployed in government through an ANC ticket must be able to account every six months on progress they are making towards the implementation of agreed policies. Worth “Otherwise these policies won’t be worth the paper they’re written on,” he said. Reddy said the branch had also highlighted the need for housing in previous conferences, with a serious shortage of land for housing, while vast tracts of land were used for sugarcane “owned by white capitalists”. “Land compensation without expropriation must be included in ANC policy,” said Reddy. Abel Soobramoney, the branch’s treasurer-general, said the party’s principles and values had been discarded. “This new ANC is not the ANC we stood and fought for, and to some, even a just call like radical economic transformation has become a power struggle, and it is power struggles that are tearing the party apart,” said Soobramoney. He said the ANC and its president, Jacob Zuma, had a tough job in implementing radical economic transformation, and it would not happen overnight. “Radical economic transformation is about levelling the playing field and opening equal economic and business opportunities; if this generation of leaders doesn’t achieve, the next will,” he said. Alongside housing, the branch’s leaders said emphasis at the policy conference should also be put on job creation and education. “If people don’t have jobs they will turn to stealing and from there, they will turn to drugs and from there, everything goes down,” said Ashwin Beekram, ward 73 branch secretary-general. Sally Ramsamy, ward 73 branch deputy chairperson, said having free education for the “poorest of the poor” was significant. “Even for colleges, they need to bring down the fees, and in Chatsworth we have a lot of poor children in our schools,” she said. Daily News