Durban - We lay to rest the Last Bolshevik south of the Umgeni who devoted his life to the defeat of capitalism and the quest for freedom and democracy. Kay Moonsamy was born in Silver Palm Road, Overport, in Durban on July 5, 1926. He was the eldest of seven children. His father worked in the catering industry, while his mother cared for the large family. Household poverty led him to start work at the tender age of 14 at Rhodesian Timbers Limited. He earned a meagre salary because of the race-based prejudices of the time. Early in his life, he was exposed to trade union activism, which was to dominate his entire life. He joined the Natal Box, Broom and Brush Workers Union founded by Comrade RR Pillay. He believed that the deplorable daily working conditions that he had to contend with constituted a grave injustice and had to be fought at all costs. The consistent fight for higher wages enabled the union to win its demands in 1943, when the factory agreed to increase wages to two pounds and ten shillings a week, up from the initial fifteen shillings or one pound after one year. As soon as he reached his 18th birthday in 1944, the way was clear for him to join the Communist Party of South Africa. He was attracted to the party s principles of non-racialism and equality. In 1949, at the age of 23, he was elected to the CPSA Durban Committee. Following the 1950 Suppression of Communism Act, he began working for the CPSA underground.In the political context of the time, he was also drawn into the agitation of the progressive wing of the Natal Indian Congress. This group included a number of communists. They organised themselves into the Anti-Segregation Council. Moonsamy was one of the leading figures in the campaign to recruit 34 000 new members. At the meeting of the NIC at Currie s Fountain in October 1945, more than 10000 people elected a new and dynamic leadership under the presidency of Dr Monty Naicker. It was a turning point in the political posture of the Indian community as the conservative Kajee-Pather bloc was ousted. The NIC went on to join the Transvaal Indian Congress in organising the Passive Resistance Campaign against residential segregation. The resisters defied the law by occupying a piece of land at the intersection of Gale Street and Umbilo Roads in Durban beginning on June 13, 1946. They were tried and convicted for their protest actions. Moonsamy went to prison on his 20th birthday, sentenced to hard labour in Ixopo Prison. The Passive Resistance campaign also formed the basis of the non-racial platform that took shape in March 1947, with the signing of the Three Doctors Pact by presidents AB Xuma, Yusuf Dadoo and Naicker of the ANC, TIC and NIC respectively. Unity in action came to be the hallmark of the broad front against racism and apartheid. It gained significant momentum during the 1952 Defiance Campaign Against Unjust Laws, which was spearheaded by Nelson Mandela as Volunteer-In-Chief. He was a volunteer in the Freedom Charter Campaign, collecting lists of demands from workers to send to the Kliptown conference.In 1956, he was charged with 155 other leaders of the Congress Movement in the Treason Trial, which drew worldwide attention to racial discrimination in South Africa. During the 1960 State of Emergency, he worked underground to avoid arrest. He was one of the organisers of the three-day national protest on May 29 to 31, 1961. Highly regarded for his discipline and spotless integrity, he was selected by the underground movement to be among those organising Mandela s report-back meeting in Reservoir Hills after the historic politico-military tour of Africa. On March 31,1963, he was served an arbitrary banning order. The next month he was convicted of breaking his banning order. He was detained in solitary confinement under the Suppression of Communism Act in September 1964. In 1965, he was instructed by the movement to leave the country. He followed the instruction, despite having a young family - an unemployed wife and four minor children. Between 1965 and 1968, he continued his political activities in Bechuanaland. He was sent by the ANC to its Lusaka offices in 1968 to help prepare for the historic Morogoro Conference, in which he also participated. Thereafter, he remained in Tanzania, working closely with JB Marks, the treasurer-general of the ANC. In 1972, he was again sent to the ANC s Lusaka headquarters, where he worked closely with president OR Tambo. His seniority in the movement also saw him centrally involved in the establishment of the Solomon Mahlangu Freedom College in Mazimbu, Tanzania. For a short period in 1978, he served as the ANC s chief representative in New Delhi. Between 1983 and 1987, he served as the Treasurer-General of the South African Congress of Trade Unions (SACTU) and in 1989 was elected as the last president of SACTU. In 1985, he was a delegate to another historic ANC conference convened at Kabwe in Zambia. In 1991, he returned home after 26 years in exile. The ANC sent him to Parliament in 1999, a seat he held for 10 years. President Jacob Zuma conferred on him the Order of Luthuli in 2015. The citation read: For his outstanding contribution to the fight for democracy and freedom in South Africa. As a trade unionist he was among the leading figures who actively fought the apartheid system. Those of us who served with Moonsamy over decades in exile and again in the country are privileged to have walked with a servant-leader. May his soul rest in peace.* Moodley served with Moonsamy in the South African Communist Party and SACTU. Daily News