On Thursday, the foster mother of the 19-year-old girl, who was allegedly being used as a sex slave in Belhar, contacted the Daily Voice to say she immediately recognised her daughter even though her face had been blurred out in Tuesday’s newspaper.[IOL did not carry the picture of the teen.] The relieved mom says her daughter went missing in December 2016, and she’d been looking for her ever since. “She has lived with me all these years. She was such a lovely girl and we had a fantastic relationship,” she says. “In the months before she went missing, she changed. She would lash out at me all of a sudden, but before we could get help, she was gone.” Heavily drugged teen sex slave rescued A pastor had picked up the drugged girl and an older woman on the R300 near Belhar on Sunday after noticing “something wasn’t right” with the meisie. He dropped the girl off at an address she had given him. Police later went to fetch the girl from the Belhar house, where a mother, father and their four sons live. A police source said charges would be formulated once the girl could give a proper statement. The teen, who is currently at a place of safety, had been in a drugged state and couldn’t provide her name, age or say where she was from. The girl said she had been molested and raped for years. “I don’t know my real name, I’ve had many names over the years,” said the petite, shy teen. “I don’t know my mother’s name either, but she died when I was five. A few aunties in Woodstock took me and cared for me and I was moved around a lot.  “I don’t remember when [the pimp] found me. She took me and gave me [tik] lollies and it made me happy and sad and I also had to smoke the dagga she gave me.” On Thursday, the foster mother said the girl had been living with her since she was five, and that her mother had passed away when she was seven. “She has a sister as well. I am just glad she is safe,” says the mom. A social worker who has been assisting the teen says she is happy that her family has come forward. She says all the girl’s allegations will have to be investigated. The teen will remain at a place of safety as she undergoes drug rehabilitation. “She has now settled in and is talking,” says the social worker. Daily Voice