DURBAN - The prestigious  Golden Pen of Freedom of the annual press freedom award of the World Association of Newspapers and News Publishers (WAN-IFRA) was last night awarded to Turkish journalist Can Dündar in Durban. Dündar, the former editor-in-chief of Cumhuriyet newspaper, received the award at the opening ceremony of the 69th World News Media Congress and 24th World Editors Forum. It is being attended by over 700 editors, publishers and journalists. President Jacob Zuma, who was meant to address delegate was unable to be at the opening ceremony as his plane was grounded by a severe storm that battered Cape Town. Dündar  was given the award for upholding the values of a free press and his support for the 150 Turkish journalists who are still in jail under a crackdown by President Tayyip Erdoğan. He spent 92 days in jail but was released in February 2016 after the Turkish Supreme Court decided that his detention was an "undue deprivation of liberty". Dündar was arrested together with his colleague, Erdem Gül, following the publication of an article alleging Turkey's intelligence services had attempted to send arms to Syrian rebel groups. Since June 2016  Dündar has lived in exile in Germany after fleeing Turkey following an assassination attempt outside an Istanbul court. His wife is still in Turkey as authorities have confiscated her passport. There are currently six arrest warrants against him in Turkey. “Journalists need courage because there is a cloud of fear hanging over them - fear is everywhere, and it is so powerful,” Dündar said in accepting the award “I come from the biggest prison for journalists in the world: currently 150 of my colleagues are behind bars in Turkey, and imprisoning one member of the press intimidates hundreds of others,” he said. Following a failed coup in July 2016, Erdogan’s regime has used the penal code, criminal defamation legislation, and the country’s anti-terrorism laws to punish critical reporting, the World Editors Forum said. They say that journalists in Turkey were facing “growing violence, harassment, and intimidation from both state and non-state actors”. Turkish authorities have also reportedly shut down some 150 media organisations since the coup attempt. “We are gathered here to celebrate journalism, honour a fearless, principled editor-in-chief, and denounce the appalling situation that has been unfolding for press freedom in Turkey,” Dave Callaway, World Editors Forum president said. “Journalism is not a crime. Turkey must immediately and unconditionally free all journalists in jail because of their work. Restoring media independence and guaranteeing press freedom should be an absolute priority for anyone with an interest in seeing Turkey succeed,” he said. Thomas Brunegard, WAN-IFRA, President said the conference was an opportunity to listen, learn, debate and exchange ideas. He praised South Africans and the judiciary in protecting the freedom of the media. In a statement yesterday, the organisation’s board highlighted South Africa’s Cybercrime Bill as an “assault on the right to digital privacy” and a threat to the protection of journalists’ sources. The organisation said it supported the on-going efforts to challenge the 2002 Regulation of Interception of Communications and Provision of Communication-related Information Act. ‘’The Board of WAN-IFRA denounced the draft Prevention and Combating of Hate Crimes and Hate Speech Bill, which would criminalise "bringing contempt and ridicule" onto figures of authority, as well as the Film & Publication Board Amendment Bill, which broadens state power to censor content,” the statement said. Minister of International Relation and Cooperation, Maite Nkoana-Mashabane who welcomed delegates on behalf of President Zuma said South Africa was the “home of press freedom”. She said editors around the world faced the challenge of dealing with fake news and real journalists needed to “fight for the truth and the real downtrodden who are not yet free”. She, however, said that press freedom came with responsibility and accountability.