Sixteen police vehicles from Isipingo police station have been lying inactive at the Jacobs police vehicle service centre for months, leaving just two vans to patrol the vast south Durban area. Service delivery has been severely hampered and morale is low as police management have yet to appoint a new station commander. The position has apparently been vacant for more than a year. The current station commander has been on sick leave and, in the interim, several police officers have been acting commanders. The community was apparently angered when minibus taxis recently blocked the roads in Prospecton, and also when police apparently did not respond to a recent service delivery protest. The Isipingo police patrol area includes Lotus Park, Orient Hills, Malukazi, Isipingo Hills, uMlazi, Reunion, Isipingo Rail, Sapref refinery, Isipingo Beach and Prospecton. The area is divided into 12 sectors. Aidan David, the newly-elected CPF chairperson, said he wanted to turn things around. He is intent on a smooth running and efficient police station. “The community of Isipingo is concerned about the management of the police station. “One of the police vehicles was sent for wheel alignment on April 24 and has not returned. Another police vehicle went in for battery and electrical faults in early May,” he said. On Monday, he said one of the station’s two patrol vans had problems with its tyres and braking system. It was parked and David decided to arrange for a mechanic. “As the chairperson, it is my duty to take on these matters. The vehicles are poorly treated because they belong to the state. The vehicles indirectly belong to us. They provide a service to us. Some police members act like they are doing us a favour,” he said. He was further infuriated when he read the list of vehicles sent in for repairs for a cooling system, a differential and gearbox. Other vehicles required a quote for parts, while at least three were boarded and two not inspected because job cards were not filled in. “The garages are not being transparent with who the merchants are repairing the police vehicles. Three months for a wheel alignment to be done is just too much,” David said. In response, Brigadier Jay Naicker, provincial police spokesperson, said the Isipingo SAPS had a permanent station commander who was currently off sick. “An acting station commander has been appointed in his absence,” he said. Naicker said all vehicles in police garages were monitored and station commanders did engage with the garage managers to ensure that these vehicles were released as soon as possible. Naicker said the station had adequate vehicles to carry out its mandate. However, David said: “We are so pressured that we now plead with private security companies in the area to assist. The community is suffering.” David has lived in the area for 47 years and is passionate about saving it from criminals. “What are the chances of survival if something serious happens here?” he asked. Daily News