This was evident as the race came to a close, with runners using their last bit of strength as they made a mad dash for the finish line to beat the gun that signalled the end of the marathon. The gunshot and trumpet crushed many people’s dreams of completing the race in time. For those who managed to make the cut-off, the pain was dulled by the joy of having completed another race. One of those people was Verulam resident Logan Pillay who was running his 21st comrades. A limping Pillay said the race did not go well for him as he had been feeling nauseous. Despite feeling ill, Pillay said being in a group helped him finish the race in time.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Would he do it again? He said: “Once you are addicted to running you continue running.” Pillay said he would be back next year despite this year’s poor health. It was not only Pillay who was the worse for wear; tired runners were scattered all over the Scottsville race course where the race finished. Paramedics and other medical personnel were frantically running up and down trying to help out those whose bodies had said, ‘no more’. Even those who looked strong collapsed a couple of hours later from sheer exhaustion. But just like during the race, there were fellow runners to offer helping hands. Victor Makeketa from Pretoria said even though he suffered cramps, he had told himself that he would not give up and ran parts of the race and walked others. “Comrades is nice with pain. The pain is what makes Comrades.” He said he enjoyed the race through the pain. The father of three counted the support of his children as one of his main motivators. Makeketa said he first did the race out of curiosity at the behest of a friend as he had been doing five and 10km runs before and got hooked when he ran Comrades for the first time five years ago. The key to finishing the race was discipline, he said. He finished the race in 11:57 minutes. Daily News