Johannesburg - South Africans concerned with the extent of the Gupta families' influence in government departments will have to brace themselves for more revelations as thousands of emails will be made available to journalists soon. This week, a few of the email exchanges between the Gupta family, its associates and some government officials were released showing a snippet of the extent of the family's close relationships with government ministers. The Daily Maverick's investigative unit Scorpio and amaBhungane, an independent investigative unit, revealed on Thursday that they had access to between 100 000 and 200 000 emails and documents belonging to the Gupta family which they have branded the #GuptaLeaks. Some of these emails were leaked to the Sunday Times and the City Press at the weekend. The publication said they would make the emails and documents available to journalists as the information "is both too dangerous and important not to share". To protect whistleblowers, the publication said it held back on releasing the documents as they warranted further investigation. "It was our plan eventually to place the full #GuptaLeaks on a platform accessible to the wider media for further investigation. We have now brought that forward and placed the full #GuptaLeaks in the care of an offshore organisation which will load it to a secure platform, form where it will soon be accessible to many bona fide journalists," said the publication in its editorial. Some of the revelations contained in the leaked emails, showed that the Minister of Communications Faith Muthambi shared details of cabinet discussions with the Gupta family before cabinet meetings. The emails also confirmed that the Minister of Mineral Resources Mosebenzi Zwane and travelled with the Gupta family and its associates to Switzerland to help them secure a sale of a mine. The Minster of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Des van Rooyen was flown by the Gupta family to Dubai. Politics and Development Hub