Some claim that 20 members of staff were fired for their tools-down stance. However, those employees believe they will be reinstated once the matter is resolved. Employees downed tools on Monday, refusing to conduct any post-mortems due to a dispute with the manager. Staff have also said they have to buy their own shoes, and that boots are not supplied. Some claimed they have to request gloves each day and use old face masks from days before as new ones are not readily available. Speaking to the Daily News outside the mortuary  workers said they had lodged a number of grievances over issues of overtime and work gear but all go no further than the manager. “Our protocol is to lodge our grievances with her and she is supposed to hand them to her senior but that does not happen,” a staff member said. Workers said they were calling on others in mortuaries across the province to stand in unity with them and decline to conduct another post-mortem until their complaints are taken seriously. “She has a bad attitude towards us and has certain members of staff whom she favours. She does not sign our overtime sheets on time. Some of our overtime papers are still here for months. Other mortuary workers have their overtime documents signed within seven days but ours are here for so long. “They are not handed to the district manager,” a worker said. He said workers had written to officials at the Department of Health and they were yet to be addressed. “No one comes to speak to us. Our grievances go as far as the manager and then they go in the bin. If they put her on special leave, we will go back and work. Our issue is not the work, it is with the manager,” he said. Workers said they saw more than nine bodies a day. There were only two people on duty to fetch bodies from accidents or crime scenes. “There used to be two technicians and two drivers. So when one pair was busy with one scene, another pair could attend to another call-out.” Workers said the manager had been re-arranging duty rosters without consultation. “We also have lives and families. We come in one day and the roster is changed and we find we are working different shifts. All of this is done without any consultation. We have to work according to what she says. “When we hand in our overtime, there are issues. “We work out our overtime according to the roster and in one instance she had gone on leave during that time. When she came back, suddenly the roster had vanished and she said there was no account so we could not get paid for it,” an employee said. The staff at Pinetown cover a large area that spans the Pinetown, Chatsworth and Mpumalanga clusters and covers at least 15 police stations. “Our job is stressful enough and we still have to put up with this kind of attitude. We are appealing to the Health Department to remove her or place her on special leave. Then we will go back to work.” Meanwhile, the manager has, through the Department of Health, obtained an interdict against protesting staff. An employee said the manager also called in police yesterday, claiming that she felt threatened. “She told police that we were intimidating her and families coming to identify loved ones.” Dr Imran Keeka, DA spokesperson for health in the province, said Health MEC Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo should be ashamed that mortuary go-slows continue to happen on his watch. “It appears that he will, yet again, be taking leave of his executive duties in order to perform autopsies. This is entirely unacceptable as mortuary staff would be available to perform the autopsies if he would only attend to their grievances. We extend our condolences to the families of the deceased whose grief is being compounded by the current situation that the MEC has allowed to develop to this point. “Not only must they deal with the loss of a loved one, the delays also mean that in many instances they cannot conduct burials in accordance with their religion,” he said. Mortuaries across the province have been plagued by protests in recent months with staff complaining about working in unsavoury conditions. The Daily News contacted the Health Department but they had not commented at the time of publication. Daily News