The book, titled My First English Reader: This is all about me, surfaced last week after a mother contacted a local radio station to complain about its contents. Two photographs showing excerpts from the book have since been shared on social media with many parents condemning both the book and statements made in it. The book reads: “Here is my mum. She is a good mum. My mum is not fat. She is thin and tall. Mum is a pretty lady.” On another page it says: “Mum loves to shop. She buys lots of good food to cook. Mum wants to buy a red hat and a bag. My mum makes me happy. I love my mum.” On a third page it says: “This is my dad. He is big and tall. Dad is very good to me. He is off to work. Bye!” While many parents said their children had not been issued this book, they disagreed with its message. Charmaine Annett Daniel said she believed the book might cause children to be self-conscious. “It also teaches girls that their place is in the kitchen, while boys are left to be breadwinners. It is very misleading,” she said. Jenny de Wet, another parent, said the impressions created in the book could form ideas and concepts for young minds. “This kind of material leads to self-doubt, shame, and self-disgust. “It only takes one comment about your physical appearance to give you a lifetime of self-image insecurities. This type of material is unacceptable, and it doesn’t even promote the one thing our country usually boasts about – the rainbow nation. Poor standards,” said De Wet. Dr Nokuthula Mazibuko, a senior lecturer in the Department of Sociology at the University of South Africa, said she was shocked by the contents of the book. “This book reinforces the notion of patriarchy, which is a structured system of interrelated structures through which men exploit women. “It is a system based on social production framework and ensures domination that ensures women continue experiencing inequalities. “This book is introduced to pupils at Grade 1. At this age, they are learning gender roles through the reinforcements of social behaviour. “Children still receive these gender roles from engaging in gender ‘appropriate’ and ‘inappropriate’ behaviour. “The content of this book posits that gender roles are learnt rather than inherited. It is exposing the pupils to the stereotypical notions of what is beautiful and accepted, and what is not. “These are dangerous unintended lessons learnt from early childhood and imprinted by the schooling system, which is meant to protect and retain healthy behaviours and beliefs through reinforcement,” she said. Mazibuko added that these perspectives could be carried from one generation to another, and if pupils were confronted with different expectations later in their adult lives, they might perceive those as threats to their masculinity or femininity. “This could result in violence against women during their intimate relationships. Bearing in mind that violence is a deliberate, chosen behaviour that abusers or aggressors believe is warranted in a given situation, domestic violence is a goal-oriented mechanism that maintains an imbalance of power between a man and a woman in a violent relationship,” said Mazibuko. Troy Martens, a ministerial spokesperson for the Department of Basic Education (DBE), said the book was not part of the national DBE catalogue. “The school may be a Section-21 school (those that manage their own finances) where they might have sourced additional or supplementary material over and above the core material listed in the DBE catalogue. The school may be a private school, meaning they would not necessarily procure from the DBE national catalogue or the school might not have a credible learning and teaching support materials (LTSM) committee that scrutinises all forms of LTSM prior procurement by the school,” said Martens. She said that while the DBE did not have all details of the school where the book was issued, it understood the procurement model in KZN was that the province made acquistions for Section-20 schools (those with a governing body), while Section-21 schools sourced material independently. Martens said that schools were not limited to getting only from the national catalogue, but were free to acquire supplementary material from other sources. This process, however, was left in the hands of the schools’ management teams, which decided on the quality and relevance of the material as and when required. “The department will investigate further. The material must be either revised or removed from any provincial or district list if any,” Martens said. “The parent must be commended for her vigilance and progressiveness in raising the matter as a parent should. The department has systems in place to ensure that material such as this is referred back to the publisher for corrections. “Monitoring does not or should not only take place at a national or provincial level. Cases such as this show the value of having parents contribute to the monitoring process. A ministerial task team which is currently reviewing LTSM, will provide a preliminary report by the end of June,” Martens said. Daily News