DURBAN - unforeseen circumstances - according to a notice placed at the entrance to Montclair Mall Library - have led to the indefinite closure of yet another municipal library in the Durban area, allegedly over lease agreement glitches.eThekwini Municipality s Real Estate Department allegedly failed to pay rental arrears that accumulated since the rent increased in March. Although the city had finalised the new lease negotiations and had the lease approved by the city manager, the city had implemented the rent increase as from April, while the landlord was demanding that the increase be implemented from March 1.According to a well-placed source, this meant the city had accumulated more than R30000 in arrears and, although it was up to date with its monthly rental payments, it owed the landlord the shortfall for the increase. The landlord, JHI Properties, the Montclair Mall property management company. on Tuesday took a decision to close down the library until the amount owing was paid in full, said the source. The Real Estate unit now had to follow a procurement procedure to have the arrears amount paid.On Thursday the Daily News s efforts to get comment from JHI Properties spokesperson Kelly Carmicheal were not successful.Hillary Municipal Library had a similar notice pinned to its doors. The notice read: Due to unforeseen circumstances, the library will be closed until further notice. This library has been closed since April. Following the sudden closure of this library, Tozi Mthethwa, eThekwini Municipality s spokesperson, would only say that unforeseen circumstances had led to the facility s closure.FinalisedTwo months later, the library is still closed, even though it is alleged that the lease agreement was finalised.In October, Umbilo Library was closed for three weeks over lease agreement disputes.Ward 64 councillor Gavin Hegter said the library closure was a huge inconvenience to the schoolchildren, who needed the library study area. The school holidays are coming up and they will have no library to keep them occupied during the day. We call on the municipality and the landlord to sort out the disagreements or arrears outstanding so that this valuable service to the community is not compromised, he said.A group of pupils from the local high school visiting the library could not use the facility to borrow books to read over the school holidays. This is an inconvenience, especially with the winter school holidays coming up, we will have a lot of assignments to do, said one of the pupils. The DA s Shontel de Boer said they were extremely concerned by the indefinite closure of another municipal library and blamed the municipality for failing to sort out the lease agreement issues months before they came to an end. We never had such problems before. Mayor Zandile Gumede should sort out this matter, said De Boer.Mthunzi Gumede, the mayor s spokesperson, dismissed those blaming the library problems on the mayor, calling them opportunists who were dragging politics into the matter.He said Gumede had already given instructions to the responsible departments to sort out lease agreements that had expired and those that were soon to expire as a matter of urgency.Daily News