DURBAN - On Sunday, Berea resident and father of two Boysie van Staden ran his final Comrades. “As I came in just before the finish line, I saw certain people who had been following me for years and it was just like ‘you’ve hit this, it’s your fortieth, that’s it’.” Van Staden said he was tearing in the final stretch and when he crossed the finish line he was speechless. “It hit me quite hard. I had decided that I wouldn’t run another Comrades. Forty is enough.” His first race was in 1973 and he took a break in 1997. The reason behind his decision to call it a day this year, at the 92nd edition of the race, was because he had achieved everything a runner could in the Comrades. He has won six gold medals with a highest finishing position of fourth place and numerous silver and bronze medals. Age is another factor that contributed towards his retirement as training became harder for him. He said he would focus on mountain bike riding and playing golf. His father and friends first encouraged him to start running and to participate in the Comrades when he turned 18. He saw that he could keep up with them while jogging and barely broke a sweat. In 1973, he ran the race in 9 hours 29 seconds. One of his most notable achievements is beating four-time Comrades winner Alan Robb. Robb and nine-time winner Bruce Fordyce, whom he greatly respects, presented him with his green number for completing 40 races. He said he could write a book on some of the funny memories he had from running. “I still remember when I ran my fastest down run in 5 hours and 37 minutes and finished fourth. I was coming through halfway with a guy called Steve Hollier. We were in about 23rd position. He said to me ‘Boysie, you’re either gonna die or we’re gonna get gold’ and I said to him ‘Boet, you can die and I am gonna get gold’,” he said with a laugh. Van Staden said he finished fourth and Hollier finished 10th. “It was a fantastic moment.” He ran his personal best during that race. The factory manager said his family was very proud of his achievements. Van Staden will continue with short distances like the 10km runs. Next year, he plans to be on the route to cheer the other runners on. Daily News