The issue of R1bn had created a resentful relationship between the ANCYL and eThekwini Mayor Zandile Gumede who allegedly failed to allocate this money when delivering the R45bn budget last week. When Sabelo addressed members of the ANCYL in Verulam last week, he warned Gumede “whether you are mayor or speaker, you ignore young people at your own risk”. Sabelo had last year led a vigorous campaign for Gumede to be elected chairwoman of eThekwini region and mayor. The league wanted the money to be allocated to the municipality’s yet-to-be-established youth structure. Sabelo said the structure should be responsible for youth skills development and also supporting youth-owned businesses. DA provincial leader Zwakele Mncwango said the league would use the R1bn “as it pleases to dispense patronage and buy votes, and no doubt make connected insiders very rich”. “The DA has long held that Mayor Zandile Gumede owes a lot of people for the position she holds in the ANC eThekwini, and the position she holds as mayor, and now it is clear that it is payback time,” Mncwango said. However, Sabelo said the municipality had policies to protect the money from being abused for personal gain. Thulisa Ndlela, ANCYL eThekwini region spokesperson, said if the city refuses to adhere to its demand “then the youth has to decide what it needed to do about the city”. “Young people have not been given R1bn as a budget this year. “A city that spends R60m on the Essence Festival that lasted eight days tells me they can’t spend money for youth development,” said Ndlela. He said the nature of the relationship between the ANCYL and the city was “complementary at times and contradictory at times”. “Right now we are at a point of contradicting one another, and I don’t want us to view this as if we now hate each other,” he said. He said “the buck stops” with Gumede as the head of the city. Gumede had rejected allegations that she had turned down the ANCYL proposal. She said in her “budget and inaugural address” that she would focus her energies on programmes that are aimed at uplifting the youth, women, military veterans and people with disabilities. “The city recently adopted a people’s budget, and we have allocated a number of projects and programmes that are dedicated to the youth of eThekwini. To mention a few: 199 learnerships, 190 skills programmes, 92 artisan development programmes and 1000 graduate work experience opportunities,” said Mthunzi Gumede, the mayor’s spokesperson. He said the issue of R1 billion was still under discussion, but each department within the municipality had the responsibility of dealing with youth development issues. Daily News