The Transport Department has admitted to the backlogs and said there was no immediate technological solution. The Daily News visited five licensing and testing centres – Windsor Park in Smiso Nkwanyana (Goble) Road, Pinetown, Verulam, Umbilo Licensing Bureau and Rossburgh – after numerous calls from frustrated people about the time spent in slow queues to renew their driver’s licences, book various tests or sort out vehicle licensing. Most people said they arrived as early as 6am and were forced to take a day’s leave from work to sort out their licensing issues. Some said booking a test took about eight hours. They all questioned why this always had to be the case. Some said that despite arriving so early, it still took them until midday to complete their tasks. At the Verulam Testing Centre, one of the visitors said she was lucky to obtain an application form for a learner’s licence. She said she had been unsuccessful a few times because when she arrived at the centre, she learnt that the limit of 200forms a day had already been reached. The unemployed woman from Ndwedwe, outside Verulam, said she had taken the first bus to town so that she could be attended to early. She said that while getting her driver’s licence would open up job opportunities for her, getting it meant she first had to wait in a long queue. She finally left the centre at 2pm and was excited that she would write her learner’s test in about 10days. She was, however, not happy about the time spent at the centre. “I had to ask my neighbour to look after my baby because I knew that I was going to be here for hours.” She felt the process would have been much better if there was a testing and licensing office closer to her community. Another unhappy visitor at Verulam Testing Centre criticised the one-queue system, suggesting that separate queues according to the required services would work faster. “The queues are moving very slowly. Something needs to be done so that the service is efficient. If the workers cannot cope with the demand, then there should be more staff,” said the visitor. This was the opinion shared by most visitors at the licensing and testing centres. At Rossburgh testing centre recently, visitors were turned away because there was no water for three working days. When the Daily News returned after the water problem was resolved, visitors complained that more should be done to make the process faster. Some people suggested that online bookings might be an answer. In Pinetown, people complained that they had to stand in a queue outside in the heat, before joining another queue in the building. The elderly and wheelchair-bound visitors were given preference and did not join the queue. They were directed to a room where they spent less than 30minutes. A woman, accompanied by her son, said they were satisfied with the service by a friendly member of staff who offered them assistance the minute they walked in. At most centres, people who booked learner’s tests were allocated dates to write in less than two weeks, while driver’s licence applicants were allocated dates in the middle of August. However, visitors at the licensing centres in Goble Road and Umbilo complained that the process took too long. Most said it took them about five hours in the queue. Kwanele Ncalane, provincial Transport spokesperson, said the department was aware of the backlogs. He said the department was especially worried about the queues at the centres. He attributed this to the growing demand for driver’s licences, especially among the youth. Some of the delays, he said, were because of processes such as the filling of forms, eye tests and processes to prevent fraud and corruption. Since 2013, the Transport Department has been conducting ongoing research into finding technologically advanced strategies such as online bookings to help fast-track the process and decrease the backlog. Ncalane said the department inspected various centres in 2013 and found that long queues and backlogs were a huge problem. In 2014, the department commissioned a study about an online booking system. To date, the process has not been completed and there are still gaps on how to prevent fraud. In the past, Ncalane said the Transport department had tried to centralise the service through municipalities and small towns, but was forced to shut down the centres because of a high level of fraud and corruption, especially in the issuing of driver’s licences. “There is an ongoing study to find how technology can intervene. Unfortunately, for now the delays are caused by the processes that we need people to follow,” he said. He said some centres were now opened on Saturdays to address the backlog and assist those who could not visit the centres on weekdays. The toilet facilities at all the visited centres were relatively clean and usable except for the water leakages. While visitors said the toilets were not spotless, they appreciated that they were usable considering the amount of time they spent there. The lid of a toilet cistern at Verulam Testing Centre was used to collect dripping water in the men’s toilet. The centres were generally clean and litter-free. Cleaning staff were seen sweeping the yards. Visitors’ parking was sufficient, but those who travelled by public transport complained that the centres were far from public transport stops. Visitors at Rossburgh testing centre complained that the minibus taxis dropped them off far away. They were forced to walk and were exposed to criminals who knew that they would often be carrying money to pay for the bookings. “The facility only accepts cash or cheques, and so I have to carry cash. The public transport, especially taxis in the morning, drop us off by the Rossburgh train station and we have to walk all the way. It is not safe at all,” said a concerned visitor. The minibus taxis were only available at the gate later in the day. Daily News