Mpungose was released on May 9 after the Pietermaritzburg (Mgungundlovu) Magistrate’s Court withdrew the charges against him. Mpungose, during an exclusive interview with the Daily News’ sister newspaper, Isolezwe, said because of the death threats he was forced to increase his personal security. “On the day I was released from prison I was picked up by a number of security guards. I had already received the messages that we would not make it home alive. “As we speak there is money set aside as a payment for my blood. I have made the MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison Mxolisi Kaunda aware of this.” When Isolezwe arrived at Mpungose’s home he had not arrived yet, but had asked the reporter to wait for him. When he arrived his vehicle was escorted by two security vehicles. The smartly-dressed Mpungose said he was attacked by police at his home and his niece was shot in the stomach during the incident by the police. “Before the police arrived at my home, I was already aware of the R3 million that was to be paid for me to be killed. When the police arrived at my home in February to arrest me, I thought I was going to be killed because they came and fired shots. I was brutalised, they were not there as police,” said Mpungose. He said the taxi violence in Nongoma would only end through the intervention of the MEC by bringing together all the people at the centre of the taxi feud to find a solutionDaily News. “Kaunda is well aware of everything that is going on. We have told him everything. His responsibility now is to find a solution to the problem. The killing of the five people was actually meant to wipe out the whole Nkosi family. We don’t know who is next,” said Mpungose. This was not the first charge that Mpungose has had withdrawn. He was accused of raping a 14-year-old girl and was convicted, but following the murder of the complainant, her cousin and the complainant’s mother, Mpungose took his conviction to a higher court where he won the case and walked free. He was also accused of the murder of Samson Mthethwa, from Mahlabathini, but the charges were also later withdrawn. Mpungose said he got emotional when he recalled the trauma of going to prison for crimes he never committed. “I left my family behind and my business. I feel like crying when I think about everything that I went through. I am now forced to hire bodyguards and this is against my own will. I lost a lot of money paying for my freedom,” said Mpungose. Mpungose owns a fleet of 10 minibus taxis operating in Nongoma. Daiy News