She was speaking at the regional general council in Durban on Thursday. Gumede emphasised the need to have clear policy proposals leading to the national policy conference next week, including clarity on the resolution on land, a state bank, transformation of the banking industry and a new mining charter that seeks to give 30% to black ownership. She said the party had the best policies but lacked implementation, leading to “increasingly losing the trust of the people”. Gumede added that the ANC needed a clear resolution on action to be taken when it failed to implement certain resolutions at government level. In the conference at which KwaZulu-Natal endorsed Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma for ANC president for the first time, provincial executive committee member Nontembeko Boyce, said “as the province where Dlamini Zuma comes from, we are releasing her to be president”. Boyce punted Dlamini Zuma as a leader who would turn the challenges of the ANC into success stories - a leadership that would rise to the character of OR Tambo. Despite the nomination process officially opening in September, Dlamini Zuma has also been endorsed by the party’s youth league. Provincial secretary-general Super Zuma said there was no chance that nominations would be brought forward as per the national executive committee directive. He said auditing of ANC members in good standing was still under way. Zuma said the the provincial general council (PGC) would have eight commissions discussing the party’s policy documents, with the organisational development and communications having been merged into one. The second commission would be on legislature and governance, the third peace and stability, the fourth would focus on education and health and the fifth social transformation. “The sixth commission will be on economic transformation, the seventh finance and fundraising and the eighth will be international relations,” he said. On how the peace and stability commission would deal with rampant political killings plaguing the province, Zuma said: “This commission will deal with broader issues such as the judiciary, security of the country such as intelligence, police and home affairs - all these things that deal with state security.” However, Zuma said the peace and stability commission that would deal with security of citizens, including focusing on the killings of councillors, would need a policy review. Zuma said they were confident factionalism would not be prevalent at the PGC because they were heading to the council “at a time when there is a sense of stability in the province” particularly in the structures of the party. He said some who had contested the outcome of the 2015 provincial elective conference, taking the matter to court, had told the party’s provincial leadership they had withdrawn from the court process as they had lost confidence in it. Daily News