DURBAN – A man suffered a broken wrist and hip bone after he allegedly jumped off a moving train to escape a gang of men who tried to attack him in Kenville, on Monday morning. After an extensive search along the banks of Kenville train station, a police rescue dog, named Ghost found the man lying 20 meters down an embankment. According to the man, who was explaining to police what had happened, he was involved in a scuffle with a few men at a tavern in KwaMashu on Sunday night. The man left the tavern thinking the scuffle had been resolved. Early on Monday while he had been asleep in his home he alleged that the men from the tavern tried to attack him again. The man fled his home and boarded a train at the nearby Duffs Road train station. During the journey towards Durban, he noticed that the men were also on the train but in a different carriage. They spotted him at the Effingham Train station. Fearing for his life and knowing that he would be caught at the next station he jumped off the moving train before it stopped at Kenville train station, he told police. He then catapulted from the train platform down the embankment between the southern wastewater treatment works and train platform. He allegedly tried to leopard crawl out but had been badly injured. The victim phoned his brother from his cellphone and explained what transpired but did not know where he was exactly. The brother contacted police who then began searching the thick bushes along the railway line. Police phoned the victim and told him to identify anything close by or whistle but he could not because he was in pain. He was also scared that the men were out there and would get to him before the police. However, Ghost from Durban K9 Unit' had picked up a scent and led his dog handler Sergeant Colin Chetty down to the man. The police search and rescue unit and a team from the Durban North fire department placed the man on a rescue stretcher and used a rope pulley system to haul the injured man up. Paramedics took them man to a hospital. Police are investigating the man's allegations. Ghost, who is a donated German Shepard, is seventeen months old and had returned in May from a four-month police training program. His nose was praised for sniffing out the victim. Daily News