This was their response after a second temple robbery this week. Worshippers at the Laksmi Narayan Temple in Mobeni Heights were held up on Wednesday night by a gang of armed men who stole their cellphones, wallets and three vehicles. Last week, the same happened to worshippers at Maha Shiv Mandir Temple in Sea Cow Lake. In the past year, there had been a spate of robberies at cellphone and jewellery stores at shopping centres throughout the city during business hours. Hijackings and home robberies have also become common crimes. Feeling unsafe, or like soft targets, at a place of worship has become the last straw for residents. Churches, temples and mosque organisations are seeking a solution to prevent further robberies. They cited increasing levels of poverty and desperation as contributing factors. Reverend Ian Booth, the Diakonia Council of Churches’ chairperson, said worshippers were often unsuspecting of any criminal intent as they prepared for a spiritual experience. “Places of worship were once regarded as immune from criminal activity, out of respect. This is no longer the case, and we regret that our society has reached this level. “This saddens us deeply, as it is not the kind of society we would like to see,” Booth said. Grey Street Mosque chairperson Abdul Vally Mohamed said the country was going through a sad phase when even prayer places were not safe. “It has come to a stage where we cannot pray in peace. Most of the mosques lock the gate or have guards on the lookout during prayer time,” Mohamed said. Marie Pillay-Ramaya, the SA Tamil Federation spokesperson, said temple organisations had begun discussing ways to combat robberies. Pillay-Ramaya said prayer times could perhaps be revised. “There is supposed to be strength in numbers at gatherings, but people are still targeted. Families fear praying at  cemeteries because of the robberies. The robbers seem to have this mentality that they got away with it twice already, so they can continue with their spree. Religious institutions cannot close their doors to anyone,” he said. Tactical Shooting Team spokesperson Rivaaj Ramdas said in preparation for the auspicious Ganesha Chaturthi prayer tonight, his team of volunteers had increased their night shift response vehicles and patrollers in the Newlands and Reservoir Hills areas. “We will be out in force and ready for any situation. We know some religious organisations can’t afford security guards, so it then becomes essential for the community and patrollers to be enlisted to assist,” Ramdas said. Organisations advise worshippers to be more aware of their surroundings and less trusting of those around them when they approach places of worship. They called for stricter security measures to be put in place. Sharing his thoughts on Facebook about the recent temple robbery, Sudeer Joseph said no one felt safe anywhere, any more. Nomthi Nosisi Mandlovu posted: “These devils. I hope they die a painful death. It makes me so angry to hear of such stories. These idiots have no respect towards the house of the Lord. All they care about is wealth. Where on Earth can we be safe now? Only place is safe is heaven.” Melody Aucamp said this type of crime would continue until the country took a financial turn for the better. Brett Allison said criminals, by definition, lacked morals and values. Daily News