Burne, who represents the DA in ward 30, said he was trying to establish the root cause of the invasions that began three months ago at the corner of Blinkbonnie and Wiggins roads. “There is no doubt there was a political element to it. I have been told so many times by sources and ward committees,” said Burne, whose ward covers Bonela, Grayleigh, Sherwood, Umkhumbane and Waterval Park. The ward has been under the spotlight after a group of people began invading a piece of provincial land along Wiggins and Blinkbonnie roads. Some residents believe it is part of a plot to boost the number of voters against Burne. Speaking to the Daily News, Burne said he did not know who the perpetrators were, but felt it was something the police should investigate. Burne won the ward in last year’s local government elections. It was previously controlled by the ANC. But since the victory he has not been allocated an office by the eThekwini municipality and has had to conduct public meetings on the pavement. The former ward councillor’s office is now occupied by the ANC PR councillor. eThekwini spokesperson Tozi Mthethwa reiterated her response of last year, that the matter would be referred to the Speaker’s office. Sbu Zikode, chairperson of the shack dwellers’ movement, Abahlali baseMjondolo, blamed rogue elements for the violence and called it “politicking”. Zikode said there was a misunderstanding when the eThekwini Municipality’s Land Invasion Unit began demolishing shacks in the area. “People are exploiting the situation for their own gain. Some people in the community and former councillors have mobilised against the land invaders so that they can build their own shacks,” he said. “The court order protects those people who were already on the land before the land grabbers emerged. Those families living there legally have now become targeted by the land grabbers,” Zikode said. He was referring to an interim court interdict Abahlali obtained from the Durban High Court. In terms of the order, the municipality is prevented from demolishing the shacks of residents named in the order. On Monday the eThekwini Land Invasion Unit, accompanied by private security guards, cleared the informal structures built on the land. They removed the building material from at least 30 shacks and loaded them on to trucks. Security guards standing along Wiggins and Blinkbonnie roads came under constant attack from a group of youngsters who pelted them with stones and rocks from behind informal houses built a decade ago on the opposite side. On Tuesday, the security guards and land invaders clashed. Using paintball guns, the guards fended off rocks and stones that were pelted at them  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Zikode said Abahlali was fighting for the rights of those already on the land. “We know there were 75 families on the land before the evictions began. “Those were the ones we represented because they were being forcibly removed. We got the court order to protect them,” Zikode said. “The municipality is violating the court order yet they came with us to inspect the land and demarcate land for the people. Now they have turned against us. The local ANC structures are organising the community and ratepayers against us,” he said. A  government official, who did not want to be named, claimed people from as far as Clare Estate and Seaview were among the land grabbers. Mbulelo Baloyi, Public Works and Human Settlements spokesperson, said Human Settlements MEC Ravi Pillay and Community Safety MEC  Mxolisi Kaunda met eThekwini Deputy Mayor Fawzia Peer and municipal officials last night. Baloyi said a major portion of the land belonged to the Human Settlements Department and, in terms of eThekwini Municipality’s town planning, it was zoned public open space and a D’MOSS status - it has environmental protection. “The court order referred to was obtained without notice to the Human Settlements Department. We are preparing papers to intervene. We also believe the current order is being misrepresented to incite others to invade,” Baloyi said. The approach to the problem, said Baloyi, would now include dialogue, law enforcement, private security and court processes. Daily News