At the opening of the city’s executive committee meeting on Tuesday Gumede said the land invasion was politically driven. She later said that in dealing with the situation  there might be a need to strengthen the city’s Security Management Unit “who may need more staff”. “It looks like this is a programme designed to ensure that the city is not properly functioning,” she said. Later, Gumede said there were opportunists taking advantage of an interim court interdict preventing the city from demolishing informal structures of 241 “verified” respondents. “We need to find solutions to deal with this matter to ensure it does not stop development in the city. We urge communities to desist from land invasions as this undermines our plans for development,” she said. She gave a directive to her deputy, Fawzia Peer, to handle the situation through the city’s Security and Emergency Services Committee, which Peer chairs. “We need a report on land invasions so we can deal with this matter decisively. This may include strengthening the Security Management Unit, who may need more staff. I trust that our officials will assist and that the deputy mayor will overcome this issue that we are faced with,” Gumede said. If any official was implicated in the land invasion issue, they would also be held accountable, she said. KZN Human Settlements MEC Ravi Pillay said a combination of dialogue, legal process and security was needed to find a solution to the problem. Pillay said he would be meeting Mariannridge residents in an attempt to mitigate the matter. “Land invasion in eThekwini is broadly a complex issue where there are numerous court actions against the city. We should be able to chart a workable solution,” Pillay said. He said Howell Road residents were given numerous opportunities to pay what was owing to the landlord, First Metro Housing. “The landlord is planning to extend accommodation for cheaper rental, but they can’t do that if people disregard those (rental) arrangements. The mayor herself had negotiated an extension of time for them to pay their outstanding arrears, but they reneged on that arrangement,” Pillay said. Political analyst Lukhona Mnguni said the protests were a result of a stagnating economy, limited access to work and resources, among other factors. “For the protester, violence is a last resort. Not just for poor people but any aggrieved person. If governance continues to collapse, protests will grow,” Mnguni said. He said eThekwini’s “obsession” with expanding the police presence in the city did not help. “Why is the mayor so obsessed with beefing up police and not addressing social issues?” Mnguni asked. He said the city was more ready to sanction a police response to protests than they were with dialogue, adding that police responding to protests fuelled protesters’ anger.

 - Additional reporting by Mphathi Nxumalo Daily News