This is according to the findings of a recent study conducted by Professor Sitwala Imenda, the head of the National Teachers’ Union (Natu). The research was conducted using a sample of teachers in four regions, two in Mpumalanga and two in KwaZulu-Natal. Teachers were asked to list the top 10 challenges they faced in the classroom and recommend what was needed to be done to address these challenges. Having to deal with ill-disciplined pupils was the main challenge most teachers expressed. The teachers said their frustration was that pupils deliberately disobeyed them knowing that they would not be disciplined. In the past, teachers caned pupils until corporal punishment was banned in 1996 and is now a fireable offence. Imenda’s research concluded that teachers were concerned they were left with no other ways to discipline pupils. He said teachers complained that removing disobedient pupils from the classroom was one of the solutions they often used, but it deprived the pupil of his or her right to education. Imenda, formerly of the University of Zululand, said although he was not trained in the field of disciplining pupils, there was a great need for other methods of discipline in the classroom. “The research has concluded that teachers have to deal with ill-disciplined pupils on a daily basis. They needed some sort of discipline to deal with such pupils in order for the work to be done. “I will be approaching experts in the relevant fields to be able to make my recommendations,” said Imenda. Allen Thompson, Natu’s deputy president, said: “The research findings will help us identify areas for our teacher development. “We established the institution so that we could develop our teachers without waiting for the government. “Such research projects are going to be done more often to keep the institution on track with what is happening in the classroom.” Thompson said teachers were not armed with anything to instil discipline in the classroom. Nomarashiya Caluza, the SA Democratic Teachers’ Union’s provincial secretary, said the problem of ill-disciplined pupils called for serious discussions with all education stakeholders, especially parents. “There are reports of pupils assaulting teachers. Teachers are basically powerless when it comes to discipline issues. “Parents need to be part of the discussions of what can best replace corporal punishment in the classroom,” she said. Thirona Moodley, the National Professional Teachers’ Organisation of South Africa spokesperson, said the current Schools Act was outdated and needed to be urgently reviewed. “There are many aspects of the Schools Act that were simply not relevant anymore and the violent incidents happening at our public schools are an indication of that. “Teachers are expected to account for the poor performance of ill-disciplined pupils, but they are powerless. “The children have a paramount amount of rights,” she said. Moodley said putting pupils on detention as a discipline alternative exposed them to the risk of crime, of being kept at school after hours. Daily News