DURBAN - Former Mountain Rise policeman Ebrahim Mohammed was on Monday remanded into custody because the State argued he was a flight risk. Mohammed stands accused of defrauding the Road Accident Fund (RAF) of an estimated R6 million. He was arrested on Saturday in Pietermaritzburg after a sting operation, and appeared in the Commercial Crimes Court in Durban on Monday. It is alleged he received the R1.6m payout for a 2002 accident he was allegedly involved in, which he claimed resulted in him becoming a paraplegic. He was also apparently awarded costs for a caregiver. Prosecutor Nolwazi Letsholo asked magistrate Judy Naidoo for a seven-day adjournment for further investigation and medical assessments to be conducted. Letsholo also argued Mohammed  was a flight risk. She said the State had received information that Mohammed  had plans to escape the country. Mohammed ’s lawyer, Asgar Khan, denied this allegation, saying his client did not have a passport. He had also objected to the week-long adjournment, arguing the State had had months to prepare its case. Khan further argued that this fraud matter was dealt with in a previous case and said the State should have instead lodged an appeal. He said his client had been previously assessed by about 20 doctors from the defence and prosecution, and was found to be incapacitated by the crash. Khan argued Mohammed  suffered from a number of ailments which included pancreatitis and hypertension. Being in custody, said Khan, was a health risk because Mohammed  needed to use a sterile toilet. “He is not in a condition to be remanded in custody for another seven days. It is not in the interest of justice,” Khan argued. Letsholo argued that Mohammed  was shot in June 2002, and in December 2002, one of his sons was involved in an accident. She claimed Mohammed  was later added as a passenger to the accident. Further, Letsholo told the court Mohammed  had said he was a quadriplegic and had to use nappies. She argued Mohammed  was not at risk of infection while in jail because he had been frequenting the Golden Horse Casino in Pietermaritzburg and Suncoast Casino in Durban, “where he would have had to use a public toilet at some point in time”. She said the RAF had problems getting access to Ebrahim because his family would tell them to speak to Khan instead. She said it took the RAF three months before they could see him. “The RAF is paying for a man that can walk,” Letsholo said. Khan said no one from the RAF had approached his client since 2012. He complained to the court that Mohammed  was not properly receiving his prescribed medication while in jail. “If you deprive him of medication, he will die,” Khan argued. Mohammed  is expected to appear in court on August 21 for a formal bail application. He is being held at Durban Central police station. Daily News