Dr Roseanne Hardy conducted a private mental evaluation of the 31-year-old Chatsworth mother on trial for the murder of her 3-year-old daughter. The little girl’s mother and 51-year-old grandmother have both pleaded not guilty in the Durban High Court to Baby X’s murder in their Chatsworth home in November 2014. They also pleaded not guilty to charges of child abuse, assault and sexual assault against the little girl’s two older siblings, who are now nine and 12. The grandmother also pleaded not guilty to sexually assaulting and raping the little girl. The accused and Baby X cannot be named to protect the identity of Baby X’s  siblings. The State had conducted a mental assessment of both women, which found they understood the difference between right and wrong and were mentally fit to stand trial. However, the little girl’s mother’s lawyers had a private assessment conducted. Hardy testified that although her findings agreed with that of the mental assessment conducted by the State, her assessment found that the injury that Baby X’s mother suffered after a car accident in 2001 had caused brain damage. “The accident caused damage that impaired her ability to exercise her judgment, although she knew what was happening was wrong,” said Hardy. The mother’s defence has been that she is mentally unstable and that her mother abused her children and had bullied her to do the same. Funds The funds used to pay for the private assessment were from the mother’s payout from the Road Accident Fund. Hardy said the mother had a traumatic childhood. She was raped at the age of six, allegedly  by a neighbour, and allegedly by her father. These incidents could have contributed to her poor judgment and inability to control herself. She said the mother had a history of drug abuse. She started a heroin and sugars habit in 2009 after the accident. She was also on anti-epilepsy treatment as a result of the accident. These factors contributed to her reacting differently in stressful situations. “I found that she was fit to stand trial. She understood the difference between right and wrong, but due to incompetent dysfunction of her brain, she was unable to appreciate her wrongfulness and could not act in accordance. “She understood the charges against her and had provided justifications, denied and provided excuses for her actions,” Hardy told Judge Mohini Moodley. She said making up stories was commonly seen in people who suffered traumatic brain damages. She said they did this to fill in the gaps of the things that they could not recall. She said at times they did not recall what happened. Providing an explanation does not necessarily mean that their brain was not impaired and that they were telling the truth. “She is not as functional as she appears to be on the surface. The evidence of the witnesses seems to be more reliable than that of the accused. Her evidence is coming with fabrication, denial, truth and justification,” said Hardy. Senior State advocate Cheryl Naidu asked Hardy to explain how the court, in this case, would be able to assess what was the truth, saying that generally people without brain damage lied to avoid the consequences of their actions. Hardy said it would be difficult to say how this could be assessed in court. “She (the mother) admitted things, denied others and contradicted herself. It is difficult to make sense of her evidence. It is hard to say if she did this to avoid the consequences or made up stories or told the truth. We cannot put much weight on her evidence,” said Hardy. Daily News