On Tuesday, parliamentarians demanded that the long-awaited proclamation be signed. One ANC MP even suggested that Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, as the leader of government business, and National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete be roped in to ensure it was signed. This emerged when the SABC interim board gave a report on the implementation of recommendations of the ad hoc committee that probed issues at the public broadcaster. Briefing the communications portfolio committee yesterday, interim chairperson Khanyisile Kweyama said the board has commissioned the SIU to conduct forensic investigations into fruitless and wasteful expenditure between April 2012 and April 2017. Kweyama also said irregularly awarded contracts with Lorna Vision, for television licence fee collection, and ANN7, for business breakfasts, have been terminated. The contract with Sekela Xabiso has been suspended and another with MultiChoice was under review. “The remaining questionable contracts identified by the ad hoc committee have been referred to the SIU for forensic investigation.” However, the SIU has yet to undertake its work while waiting for Zuma to sign the proclamation. “We have been checking what the progress is. We have set an office so that by the time proclamation is passed, we don’t have to gather documentation,” Kweyama said. This did not go down well with some parliamentarians, who said answers must be obtained if there is no proclamation at the end of August. The ACDP’s Steve Swart said the challenge was beyond the SABC’s capacity and that the SIU could not do anything until authorisation was granted. Swart said they had waited three months for the proclamation to be signed. “It obviously inhibits winding up recommendations because the SIU can’t act in the meantime.” The EFF’s Mbuyiseni Ndlozi accused Zuma of delaying restoration of stability in the SABC and affecting work commissioned by Parliament. “Most importantly, he is delaying justice because there is evidence of wrong contracts and a number of people to be pursued so that there can be justice,” Ndlozi said. “It is unacceptable, maybe he is implicated as Parliament to express ourselves that it is three months why not sign an urgent proclamation?” he asked. Concerning The DA’s Phumzile van Damme echoed these sentiments. “It is very concerning that the president appears to be sitting on this proclamation It might be worth sending a letter to the president (asking) ‘when are you to approve the proclamation?’” she said. The ANC’s Sisisi Tolashe said it was an untenable situation if there was no time frame for the signing of the proclamation. The MPs also demanded that Mbete furnish the committee with the report containing the names of those people who had misled the ad hoc committee during its inquiry. The report was prepared by the legal services unit, and it is now in Mbete’s office. Daily News