Parliament - The net is closing on the police officer who has been accused of complicity in the on-going killings at the Glebelands hostel in Umlazi south of Durban. This was revealed by acting provincial commissioner Major-General Bheki Langa when he and police top brass made an appearance before the police portfolio committee on Wednesday. Their appearance came on the heels of the killing of a former Glebelands Peace Committee member on Tuesday night - bringing to 93 the number of people gunned down at the infamous hostel over the past three years. The victim, 38, was at Glebelands hostel at 9pm when he was allegedly shot dead by unknown men. During the meeting parliamentarian wanted to be updated on the commitments the police had made to quell and investigate the killings. They also raised concerns from their visit there where community members raised questions on lack of confidence and also complained about inaction against a policeman implicated in the killings. Briefing the committee, Langa said five detectives had been added to the staff complement at the Umlazi police station. "Four investigate and a full colonel is to be in charge of the whole team investigating Glebelands cases," he said. On the implicated policeman, Langa seemed reluctant to divulge much saying, "I would rather not talk more". He assured the parliamentarians that the officer would be arrested soon. "We are to deal with that particular member ... We have got statements implicating that particular policeman that has been alleged to be involved in Glebelands," Langa said.
Mothiba said the issues raised by the community were a continuous process done on a regular basis. "We engage them via Imbizos with the minister and provincial commissioners.This issue, honourable chairman, I agree is very worrying. We depend on communities to give us information," he said. "We have taken note of this. I  have requested the minister to visit the area with me to meet all stakeholders, including political parties and community-based organizations," Mothiba said. "Im hopeful as we engage the community the trust will be there. People will realise that we need their cooperation to win the fight against crime, to arrest the criminals and convict them so that they go to jail." Daily News