The spectacle started when opposition parties voted against certain items on the agenda, with the matter escalating as members called out “nonsense", "stooge" and "boy”. The hosting of the annual maidens' conference in preparation for the reed dance next month, and the request for funding for subcontractors to remove refuse in uMlazi were just some of the agenda items that led to councillors behaving badly. Council Speaker William Mapena was fielding points of order from both sides of the bench. The DA expressed concern about the “exorbitant” budget allocated and logistics for the maidens' event, but mayor Zandile Gumede said the matter was discussed at the previous Executive Committee (Exco) sitting where she had questioned the amounts allocated for each item, such as transportation and cows. “This report came to Exco and we said we were not happy with the figures. I take this personally because this boy (DA leader Zwakele Mncwango) is misleading the house and the public,” Gumede said. The DA voted against the item. Threatened During the lunch break, DA councillor Christopher Pappas alleged he was threatened by an ANC councillor. “I was walking to the bathroom when an ANC councillor called out my name. I extended my hand, thinking that we would shake hands, but instead he pulled my arm and warned me that while opposition councillors were protected in council chambers, the same could not be said when they were outside. “He said those of us who talked too much would get hurt. “When I raised this with the Speaker, I was heckled and told by the ANC bench that I was grandstanding. With so many unsolved political killings in the province, something like this cannot be taken lightly,” Pappas said. Mncwango said Pappas had raised the threat issue in the meeting, but was not taken seriously by Mapena. “We are in a province where councillors are killed with impunity. If anything had to happen to Councillor Pappas, Councillor Mapena could be held liable for not taking the threat seriously. We will decide in due course on what steps to be taken next since the Speaker is aware of this threat,” he said. Mapena’s phone was on voicemail last night. Mthunzi Gumede, the mayoral spokesperson, said council members were always encouraged to behave in an honourable manner, and that only Mapena could comment in detail on the matter. Daily News