Sam Pillay, director of the Anti-Drug Forum in Chatsworth, said the Chatsworth SAPS did not have the capacity to fight the problem. Jakes Singh, chairperson of the Chatsworth Community Police Forum (CPF), hoped more resources would be given to the Chatsworth police. The national portfolio committee on police visited the station on Thursday as part of the committee’s five-day visit to the province’s police stations, which ends today. Brigadier Coenraad Marais, the Chatsworth SAPS station commander, said they concentrated on the drug runners. “Drug dealers are very clever and they don’t get their hands dirty,” he told the committee. Getting close to where drugs were sold was difficult for the police, he said. Marais, who has been working at the station for six years, said that when he first started working there he went to a notorious drug area in an unmarked car. The area was said to be run by alleged dealer Yoganathan Pillay, more popularly known as “Teddy Mafia”. He said they were still spotted by the dealers who quickly alerted each other by yelling “Broono! Broono”. This alert system made it very difficult for police to get near them. Ahmed Munzoor Shaik Emam, a committee member, interjected: “But the drug dealers in Chatsworth are running their businesses as if it is legal or legitimate.” Marais suggested possible solutions were more covert operations and engagement in disruptive action by going to places where drugs were sold. Marais said they were investigating a number of drug dealers in the area. “The challenge is the dealers. From my side, as a station commander, I need help from organised crime to deal with it.” Francois Beukman, the committee chairperson, said: “There is R89 billion of taxpayers’ money that goes towards the SAPS every year and we need to see results. The citizens of the country are not happy.” Beukman said that although there was going to be national intervention to deal with the drug scourge, they believed there should be proactive policing from the SAPS. “The cluster should take leadership and ensure that there are projects to deal with the drug kingpins. They shouldn’t wait for a visit by the portfolio committee to actually institute a national task team.” Fighting against drugs for more than 12 years, Pillay said the Chatsworth SAPS did not have the capacity to fight the problem. “There has to be a permanent specialised unit to deal with drug dealers. The unit must have police, South African Revenue Services and the National Prosecuting Authority. When they arrest someone they must be convicted.” Pillay said other problems were new dealers constantly entering the market, and police corruption. “We get calls from the community all the time about police collecting ‘tax’ from drug dealers.” Singh said he believed crime in the area could go down through more active CPFs. “It is about community power. Let’s not be armchair critics,” he said. Singh said the drug problem often resulted in there being a high number of house break-ins allegedly committed by addicts. He said assault cases were often drug-related. More than half the cases reported were assault cases, with a low conviction rate: 900 arrests and six convictions. Daily News