But does the department of education (DOE) in KwaZulu-Natal really have a “good story to tell” in this regard? The fact that these questions even arise after over two decades of constitutional enlightenment sets alarm bells ringing and other queries in motion. Are our most vulnerable children, those whose physical or intellectual disabilities require high levels of educational care and support in appropriate special schools, and who are predominantly non-white, poor and rural, really better off now, than in the “dark old days”? Is the DOE now making it possible for them to receive the kind of educational care and support which talks truthfully to non-discrimination, fairness and redress? The annual ministerial “passing out parade” for our top achievers in the matric examinations and the resultant media exposure for these relatively more able-bodied and intellectually intact “mainstream” learners, is a grand affair and no doubt well-deserved. But time after time the impression that is gained, which is difficult to shake off, is that the DOE’s vested interest lies primarily, if not solely, in the “mainstream” to the exclusion of all others. The following is a potent combination of laws, policies and implementation strategies to effectively promote the inclusion of, eliminate discrimination of, and maximally nurture the potential of our special needs children: A constitution which prevails against unfair discrimination of any kind. At an international level, SA is a signatory to an undertaking (Salamanca Statement 1994) to practise inclusion of special needs children and youth within an educational system which is inclusive, fair and non-discriminatory. On the basis of that international drive towards inclusion, redress and non-discrimination, SA launched its education white paper (EWP) 6 (An Inclusive Education and Training System 2001). KZN developed a highly practical strategy (Building Schools as Inclusive Centres of Learning Care and Support 2009) to implement EWP 6. However, grave concerns still arise regarding the educational care and support being provided to our special needs children. Here are just some of them: The district-based support teams, and school-based support teams, which are crucial requirements of the KZN inclusive education implementation strategy, are either non-functional or non-existent. That immediately “blows away” any chance that a highly researched and recently gazetted tool - screening identification assessment and support (SIAS) - will ever succeed. It’s tragic that SIAS (produced at vast cost), and designed to effectively zoom in on “at-risk”/special needs pupils and get “the wheels turning” to quickly mobilise the appropriate additional support they need seems set to become yet another monumental white elephant. All support staff (non-teaching staff) posts in special schools seem to have been frozen. These include posts of nurses, teacher aides, cleaners, house-mothers and drivers. Children placed in special schools were especially assessed and designated for placement in such a facility because of their proven track record of requiring all-round, high-intensity support. It’s far from rocket science to figure out the risk factors and deprivation these children will be exposed to if any of the categories of support staff are not available. For example, who else but a trained nurse would be able to properly assist a paraplegic child who has developed pressure (bed) sores or one who is having a seizure? In freezing the posts of teacher aides, the education bureaucracy seems to have missed the point that “these” children require continued vigilance and high-intensity support. Frequently, conditions co-exist. Specialised care A child presenting with a physical disability may also be presenting with intellectual impairment, as well as hyperactivity. Sudden unpredictable behaviour, epileptic seizures or neurological “meltdowns” can, and do happen frequently, making it impossible for the educator to cope effectively without a teacher aide. The personnel administrative measures document (PAM) in its paragraph 2.4, makes provision for the posts of therapists (occupational therapists; speech and language therapists and physiotherapists) in line with the special school’s needs and enrolment. Why then is there such a shortage of therapists in our special schools? This is a question that circuit managers (SEMS) and the heads of the circuit offices will themselves have to squarely face, answer and correct, and do so with urgency. Where special schools do have therapists, they generally get very little, if any, support from the district office therapists. Two key factors feature here: Firstly there are just five therapists operating from district offices - they have to serve the whole of KZN. Secondly, even these few therapists are being regularly distracted from their core work to undertake non-core tasks such as monitoring mainstream examinations or to sit in days-long meetings, usually called up by head office, during school times at a loss of around 50 working days per therapist, per year. In this way, special schools lose out on some 250 days of professional support. Special schools still feel isolated and left out as a result of the virtually zero support they get from circuits managers and district curriculum advisers. Surely it cannot be possible that the DOE bureaucracy has somehow come to its own conclusion that special schools either don’t exist or don’t matter? Considered in its totality, the current operational style of the DOE regarding the special schools sector raises grave questions - questions that almost naturally bring the spotlight of scrutiny upon issues of neglect, unfair discrimination and human rights violations against this most vulnerable group of children and youth. Is it any wonder that the late Nelson Mandela rebuked society for treating this group as “the most despised?”  *  Govender is Educational Psychologist. Co-ordinator: Children First. He is former Circuit Manager and Deputy Director of Special Needs Education Services Daily News