He also said the region supported Jacob Zuma as current ANC president and president of the country until the 2019 election. The ANC is expected to hold its elective conference in December. “The conference has mandated the regional executive committee to lobby other branches, regions and the province to support the nomination of Comrade Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma as the first woman president of the ANC and the country,” he told reporters in Mahikeng, following the region’s elective conference. Deputy regional chairperson, Oabile Seabelo, said Dlamini Zuma was the ideal candidate as her name had not been tarnished; she had served as a minister in different portfolios and there was less conflict in Africa during her tenure at the AU. “It is our mandate, it is our responsibility to ensure women are empowered and given space to exist.” He said there was no written record that the ANC deputy president had to be president. “President Jacob Zuma contested president Thabo Mbeki in Polokwane. In Mangaung President Zuma was contested by Kgalema Motlanthe. There is no record that the deputy president automatically becomes the president,” he said. “It is unfortunate for Comrade Cyril (Ramaphosa) this is the turn of women. And Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma is the credible leader to lead the ANC.” Tradition Dlamini Zuma is supported by the ANC Women’s League, while Cosatu and the SACP support the deputy president, following the tradition and culture of the ANC deputy presidents ending up being presidents of the party. The Ngaka Modiri Molema region further supported Mpumalanga Premier David Mabuza for deputy president, national chairperson Baleka Mbete as the second deputy president, Gwede Mantashe as the national chairperson, Free State Premier Ace Magashule as the secretary-general, Jessie Duarte as deputy secretary-general, and Maite Nkoane Mashabane as the treasurer-general. The ANC in the North West said the regional conference went well. “It is just unfortunate that some among our comrades have made faceless allegations in the media, with nefarious ­intentions influenced by their desire to get an outcome of their wishes. It is obvious that when such wishes do not emerge, the next step is then to lodge a grievance so as to tarnish the outcomes of the regional conference,” said provincial secretary Dakota Legoete. He said those who threatened to take the ANC to court did not meet the required threshold of 25% to be on the ballot paper, and that became clear when the conference voted for the credentials report after a debate of more than two hours. “Some comrades participated in all conference proceedings, but snubbed the voting process after realising the outcome would not favour them.” Disgruntled members had threatened to take the ANC to court on claims that the conference was structured in a way to sway votes to a faction aligned to North West premier and ANC provincial chairperson Supra Mahumapelo. Noko said those who had raised concerns during the conference were concerned about the credentials of delegates from three branches. ANA