The deceased’s 24-year-old “friend” was arrested in a car park in Short Street in the Durban city centre after security guards searched him and made the discovery. This happened just a moment before the man could allegedly sell the human head to a sangoma for R20 000. According to sources close to the investigation, the suspect told the police that the head was that of his friend, but he could not provide the police with the deceased’s full name and claimed he only knew him by his nickname. He allegedly admitted killing his friend on Thursday evening after they had drinks at a tavern in Cato Crest. “He allegedly accosted his drunk friend and dragged him to the bushes, where he stabbed him to death before dissecting the head and taking it home for the night,”  the source said. He then woke up the next morning at about 6am and took a taxi to town, where he approached three traditional healers operating from the traditional medicine market. “Two allegedly turned him down and the third agreed to buy the head for R20 000. They were to meet in the car park to conclude the deal. “When the security guards saw the man and the sangoma in the car park, they suspected they wanted to steal a car and upon searching the backpack, found a human head,” said the source. It is alleged that the sangoma pretended he knew nothing about the head in the bag or the transaction. It is believed that the sangoma was to use the human head to make muti and that the alleged murderer had targeted the market for buyers. Chanting A  crowd of onlookers gathered in the car park as the macabre events unfolded chanting: “Show us the head.” Police spokesperson Colonel Thulani Zwane said the suspect allegedly co-operated with the police and agreed to take them to the spot in the area between Cato Manor and Cato Crest where he had dumped the body. Police were now relying on the picture of the head to identify the man who is believed to be in his mid-thirties. Police were establishing through DNA  analysis whether the head belonged to the recently-discovered body. “The head was relatively still fresh and so was the body that the suspect showed the police. Investigations are continuing,” Zwane said. *  A  Chatsworth mother, 
Desiree Murugan, was murdered for her head in 2014 by youngsters who sold it to a traditional healer for R2million. Her body was found at Shallcross Sports Ground. Her head was carried in a backpack and transported in a minibus taxi to the traditional healer’s homestead in Mfume. Four suspects, including the traditional healer, were 
convicted in January of the murder, and are yet to be sentenced. *  The head of 23-year-old Nawaaz Khan, was found buried at the home of a traditional healer in uMzinto in 2015. Daily News