Durban - An ANC councillor has been gunned down in what some believe is a hit linked to factional battles in the party. Councillor Kwazukwakhe Mkhize was gunned down after a community meeting at the Inkanyezi Community Hall in the Mkambathini Municipality near Camperdown on Wednesday night. Mkhize is the fourth municipal official killed in KZN this year, after Sifiso Mkhize, Sibusiso Sithole and Thandazile Phoswa were also gunned down in their respective wards. Mkhize was the ward councillor for the Mkhambathini Municipality, in ward 3. It is alleged that Mkhize was walking towards the exit of the property when he was shot in the back. Mdumiseni Ntuli, ANC KZN spokesperson, said they were shocked and saddened to hear of Mkhize’s death. “Comrade Mkhize was one of the youngest councillors in the ANC. He was serving his first term as a councillor,” said Ntuli. He added that officials who attended the scene were concerned that Mkhize was at a meeting that was mainly made up of ANC officials. “This is very concerning for us. Comrade Mkhize was giving a report on the state of the ward and service delivery issues. According to those at the meeting, nothing transpired in the meeting that could have led to this shooting. This killing has nothing to do with the meeting and it is obvious that the person hired to shoot Comrade Mkhize, was lying in wait,” said Ntuli. Ntuli passed on his condolences to Mkhize’s family and friends. KZN MEC for Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) Nomusa Dube-Ncube described the killing as "yet another moment of darkness for our province". Dube-Ncube has called on the law enforcement agencies to do everything in their power to root out the evils of crime and violence faced by local government public representatives in recent months.
 
"This tragic death of yet another servant of the community confirms that there are indeed clandestine forces who want to undermine the democratic will of the people. There is clearly an agenda to create a blanket of fear and insecurity in our communities through these attacks on their leaders. We full confidence that our law enforcement agencies will speedily apprehend those behind this callous deed," said Dube-Ncube.
 
“It befuddles our minds that something like this continues to happen. While most incidents are isolated, the murder rate of councillors is indeed a very worrying trend. We are utterly disgusted by such disrespect for human life,” added Dube-Ncube.
 She slammed the DA for trying to score political points at a time when Mkhize's family was in mourning.
 “We urge politicians and political parties not to use this tragedy as a political football because it deepens the pain and anguish for all those affected,” Dube-Ncube pleaded. We are depressed that at this difficult time when the province is in mourning, the DA wants to use this tragedy for political point-scoring. This is against the values of uBuntu and we appeal for calm and for all citizens, irrespective of political affiliation, to stand together at this dark moment," said  Dube-Ncube.   This after the DA's Dean Macpherson offered their condolences to the councillor’s family and said that sources in the community told him that the murder was "a factional ANC hit". "It is clear that ANC factional violence continues unabated with no end in sight despite the Moerane Commission of Inquiry investigating the causes of this. We also now know that the police are unable or unwilling to stop these killings and bring the perpetrators to book.
That's why we reiterate our call for the ANC to urgently appear before the Commission and reveal all. I will continue to push Provincial Chairman, Sihle Zikalala for a time and date as to when the ANC will come before the Commission. We simply can not wait a day longer.For as long as the ANC does not play open cards with the public about these factional killings, people will continue to die," Macpherson said. Daily News