Captain Gay Ebrahim, of Mountain Rise police station in Pietermaritzburg was a recipient of an award at this year’s SAPS Excellence Awards, held at the Olive Convention Centre recently. The awards honour officers who have excelled in their duties. The 18 categories range from honouring the detective of the year to the best station of the year. Ebrahim won the award for Person with Disability of the Year. The mother-of-two said her children were even more excited about her achievement than she was. The road to the award was long and painful for Ebrahim. She contracted spinal tuberculosis in 1988 which severely affected her spine and led to her having hip replacement surgery. She was so close to death that a priest was called in to read the last rights. Her leg became shorter and she walked with a limp. But she persevered and was able to carry on with her work. However, her fight with TB continues and she is in constant pain. “I can’t sit, stand or drive for too long,” Ebrahim said. Despite this, she is still able to do outreach work in communities and crime awareness campaigns. “It is the passion for the job that keeps me motivated,” she said. This is not the only challenge she faced. She was the first non-white woman to be a part of the police force in Pietermaritzburg - in 1983. “Unfortunately, as a woman, you had to work twice as hard to prove that you could do the job as well as men, if not better,” Ebrahim said. Sexism was another challenge she faced and said she was glad there were more women in management positions than when she started. There are numerous skills she counts as her strengths. “I am a people’s person and very compassionate. My forte is working with women and children, especially those who were abused.” Port Shepstone station also got the nod for its special work. Station commander Brigadier Mathi Nala said: “I was over the moon with the honour.” Nala who has been at the helm for a year, said dedication, love of the SAPS and the love of the job were the key ingredients for the success of the station. “I am operationally-minded. I work with every member, even junior members, as it is the junior members who do the hard work.” Nala who was a policewoman for the past 30 years, said she ensured her juniors were always motivated. She hoped to eventually win the award for the best police station in the country. Daily News