He on Wednesday recalled when domestic worker Nonjabulo Mteki used to work for him and his wife, for about four years, before Singh  took her over to help at her house. “She left us to work for my wife’s sister in 2004. Judging by the number of years she stayed with her, this meant she enjoyed working there and was treated well,” said Maharaj. Mteki, 33, is accused of plotting the murder and the robbery at Singh’s flat in Musgrave Gardens on February 26 last year. Two other accused, Amon Ngongi, 28, and Ally Jumar Abdullah, 39, are facing charges of murder and robbery with aggravating circumstances. Singh, 56, a retired teacher was found dead in her bed. A neighbour had allegedly seen two men outside her flat on the day of the incident. It is alleged that Mteki was in a relationship with one Kenny Osita Oriki, who ran a business selling precious stones, and who had heard through Mteki that her employer owned several diamonds, gold items and foreign currencies. They allegedly planned to rob her. Oriki is still at large. “We were shocked when Nonjabulo got arrested for her murder. I think her arrest made it even harder for the sons to come to terms with  the murder because they practically grew up under this woman’s care. She worked there for more than 10 years.” Singh’s eldest son, Yashmeir, 29, who was staying with her when the incident happened, has recently joined his brother, Amil, 21, in Mauritius, where Amil is studying. Maharaj has been attending the court proceedings with other relatives and were keeping Yashmeir and Amil updated on the court proceedings. Difficult “It became extremely difficult for him to continue staying in the country after the death of his mother. “His whole personality changed drastically after the incident. He became reserved and very quiet,” said Maharaj. He said the pain was even more unbearable for the younger son who was told about his mother’s death in a telephone call. “At least now that his older brother is with him, they can be there for each other,” said Maharaj. He said the flat they had called home for many years was now a place of painful memories and had remained vacant since Singh was murdered. She was all they had since their father died when Amil was five years old. “My wife could not bring herself to attend the Raksha Bandan ceremony because she used to attend with her sister and it now brings painful memories,” he added. Mteki took the witness stand on Wednesday to testify in a trial-within-a-trial proceeding to establish whether the police had acted lawfully in collecting the pointing-out and confession evidence from the accused and whether the evidence could be used in court. Mteki and her co-accused are now pleading not guilty to all charges and claiming that they were threatened into confessing. Daily News