Bonhomme’s son, Clinton, told the Daily News on Tuesday that his father’s funeral would be held at the Holy Family Catholic Church in Newlands East at 8.30am on Saturday. “My father was a very staunch Catholic, and he would have preferred to have the ­actual church service in the Catholic church. The Catholics are very structured in their ways,” he said. He said the ANC understood the family’s wishes. The family did, however, agree for the ANC to hold a provincial memorial service for the 75-year-old on Thursday. “The viewing of my dad’s body will take place between 9am and 10am on Saturday, and the mass will then start. We’re expecting quite a lot of people attending. Normally, we have the viewing for 30 minutes, but we will have an extra half an hour to accommodate everybody,” he said. He said the venue and time for the memorial service had not yet been confirmed, but they were waiting for the ANC to decide. On the legacy his father left behind, Clinton said: “He was very hard, but he was fair. My father was firm with a keen sense of discipline. He was always structured and wouldn’t allow himself to fold, regardless of who you were or what position you held. He wouldn’t allow anyone to be spoken down to.” He said his father always wanted to be with the people at grassroots level, and that was why he had lived his whole life in Newlands East. “He always tried to break the mould of families leading poor lifestyles by helping their children to better their lives and uplift the area of Newlands East,” Bonhomme said. He added that his father’s focus was unconditional and unselfish, and that he had opened up his home, family and himself to the community of Newlands East. “He lived in Newlands East, he died in Newlands East and he’s being buried in Newlands East. In a nutshell, the legacy he leaves is one of a noble man,” Bonhomme said. Mthunzi Gumede, eThekwini Mayor Zandile Gumede’s spokesperson, said a moment of silence was observed for the late ANC MP at the start of Monday’s executive committee meeting. “The mayor also paid tribute to Bonhomme and hailed his contribution to the Struggle for liberation, and his dedication and discipline as a councillor and Member of Parliament,” Gumede said. He added that the mayor told everyone present that they should learn from Bonhomme’s discipline as a member of the liberation movement. Daily News