PARLIAMENT - THE suspension of Mbuyiseni Mathonsi, a prominent SACP leader in KwaZulu-Natal, has been blamed on him involving leaders of the tripartite alliance and “everyone” over his unhappiness with his government post.
Mathonsi was suspended from the SACP last week after a fallout with provincial secretary Themba Mthembu, who is also the agriculture and rural development MEC. Sources said Mathonsi had been unhappy with the level of his post, chief of staff at the department, which was downgraded to director level from chief director when he was transferred from the Premier’s Office to the department of agriculture and rural development. A chief director is paid R1.068million a year while a director’s annual salary is R898743. Mathonsi was chief of staff for former premier Senzo Mchunu, but his contract was not renewed when current Premier Willies Mchunu took over in March, 2016, amid claims of purging Senzo’s loyalists. According to a source, the fallout with Mthembu was so serious that it has apparently since been reported to the party’s central executive committee led by SACP general secretary Blade Nzimande. “How it played itself out in the province, was so nasty,” said a well-placed source. “He has been engaging everyone, including traditional leaders against Mthembu. The provincial working committee decided to suspend him based on his conduct,” the source said. “His matter could well have been resolved, but him going to the media and the court made things worse.” The suspension came after the department fired him. Willies Mchunu confirmed there was a fallout between the pair and that Mathonsi was fired. “The MEC reported to me about the fallout between himself and the head of ministry Mbuyiseni Mathonsi, who filed an urgent application in the Labour Court to be allowed access to his office and for the department to secure his medical aid. “The court heard the matter and ruled that it was not urgent and it was struck off the roll, with costs,” Mchunu told lawmakers on Thursday. He also said Mathonsi was quoted in the print media making “unfounded allegations” against Mthembu. Mthembu notified the party’s district secretaries and conveners about Mathonsi’s suspension on Wednesday. “During the suspension period, he has no right to interact with party structures and/or members, including entering the party premises,” he wrote in a circular dated August 16. SACP deputy secretary Msizi Nhlapo confirmed the suspension, but declined to comment because of the pending investigation. “Once everything has been finalised, we will communicate with the media,” Nhlapo said. In an interview, Mathonsi confirmed his suspension from the SACP and dismissal from government. “Since the matter is being handled by the lawyers, I was advised not to comment,” he said. Asked if there was a link between the suspension and termination of his employment, Mathonsi said: “A mature person can see what is happening.” Mthembu could not be reached for comment. Khaye Nkwanyana, Mthembu’s spokesperson, said Mathonsi’s dismissal was sparked by newspaper reports where Mathonsi allegedly communicated inaccurate information about Mthembu and the department. He also said Mathonsi taking the department to the Labour Court had worsened matters. “This resulted in a breakdown of the relationship between him and the MEC,” Nkwanyana said. Daily News