According to a source, the man entered the Estcourt Police Community Service Centre and told police he was tired of eating human flesh. When police questioned him, he showed officers part of a leg and a hand. On further investigation, police were led to a house in Rensburg Drift in Estcourt. Officers noticed a foul smell when they entered the house. They found more body parts. The source revealed that a second suspect was also arrested in Estcourt and a third man, believed to be an 
inyanga (traditional healer) was caught in the Amangwe area. It is alleged the men, in their 30s, raped and killed a woman before cutting up her body and consuming it. At this stage, there is also suspicion they may have violated graves. Colonel Thembeka Mbhele, provincial police spokesperson, said the men were expected to appear in the Estcourt Magistrate’s Court today. The incident comes two weeks after a man was found with a human head in his bag in the Durban CBD. On August 4, a man was caught before he could allegedly sell the head to a traditional healer for R20 000. Two people have since appeared in court for murder. Last month, a headless body was found in oThongathi. Prem Balram, Reaction Unit SA  spokesperson, said the body was found near a sports ground, near the R102. In another case, four people were found guilty of the murder and decapitation of a Chatsworth woman, Desiree Murugan. One of them is a traditional healer. Dr Ismail Moola, a psychiatrist, said such incidents had been happening for a long time and one had to consider all the factors in the matter. “You need to look at a person’s early childhood development experiences as those have a major impact and significantly affect people’s lives. You also need to assess if it was one person who wanted to be a leader and demonstrate their bravado,” he explained. “You need to see if these people have done this before or if they were under the influence of drugs or alcohol. It could also be a case of rejection or broken-down relationships with women and now they are acting out their repressed hostility towards women as an act of revenge,” he said. An official from the African National Healers Association condemned the incidents involving traditional healers. The official, who declined to be named, said they were against any incidents where bodies were hacked and used by traditional healers. “When you hear cases involving human body parts, we have to agree that this is witchcraft,” the official said. Daily News