“We are enraged by the (Zimbabwe Republic) police’s decision, but have forwarded the matter to human rights lawyers for assistance. In any case, the demonstration will proceed as scheduled,” Nera spokesperson Davis Junior Mukushwa said. In documents seen by ANA, J Chizemo, chief superintendent of the ZRP’s Harare central police district, this week wrote to the Nera Youth Forum, led by Tawanda Kalonga, acknowledging “the notice to peacefully demonstrate” at the South African embassy today. Chizemo then indicated to the opposition forum that it did not comply with sections of the Public Order and Security Act. Undeterred, Mukushwa said the protests would hit the embassy because the Pretoria government dropped the ball when it allowed President Robert Mugabe’s wife to leave South Africa after she was granted diplomatic immunity, after a charge of assault was laid against the First Lady by a young Johannesburg model, Gabriella Engels. “We feel betrayed by the South African justice system, particularly the department of international relations and co-operation. Facts are clear, Grace Mugabe was not on any formal or official government of Zimbabwe business. The granting of immunity was an abuse of the Vienna Convention on diplomatic relations and a gross undermining of UDHR (the UN Unilateral Declarations for Human Rights) provisions,” said Mukushwa. He added that the “ANC-led government politicised a purely criminal and civil matter”. “The general populace which finds Grace to be untouchable on domestic terrain always hoped the South African justice system was going to be exemplary. “But we notice that more than human freedoms and liberties, the ANC government sought to preserve its historical ties with Zanu-PF and government. Diplomatic immunity should never be used to perpetuate impunity. If Grace cannot be tried at home for evicting farmers in Mazowe, at least she must face trial for assault,” Mukushwa charged. “We call on all pro-democratic forces in South Africa, including AfriForum, to escalate the pressure of bringing justice to Gabriella. We must stand up to tyranny.” Mukushwa said whether the demonstrations took place or not at the South African embassy in Harare was not entirely a ZRP constituency. “In terms of the Zimbabwe constitution, the police should be notified of an intention to hold a peaceful demonstration. They have no constitutional mandate to clear or to deny demonstrations. The police are using a draconian statute, the Public Order and Security Act, to suppress any form of political activism. “In the event that the police deny our forum the chance 
(to protest), we will file an urgent high court chamber application for a court order to proceed,” said Mukushwa. He vowed that opposition parties were pushing to overturn the police decision and converge at the embassy in the upmarket Belgravia suburb in Harare today. On the same day, Zimbabwe’s ruling Zanu-PF is set to march in Harare in a “solidarity march for the First Lady, Dr Grace Mugabe”, who is also the party’s women’s league national chairperson. “We shall stand by our mother regardless. We shall fall and rise together as we bond forever and ever, and continue to display our love and care in the spirit of family-hood,” read one alert for the mass protests, purportedly from a Harare province secretary for information. - ANA