This was just seconds after he applauded Western Cape High Court Judge Chantel Fortuin following the handing down of his four life terms plus 71 years sentence, which would run concurrently. As he heard his fate, the 20-year-old serial killer appeared unfazed by the media presence and crowded gallery. Dressed in a navy track top with white straps on either side, Wilson often smiled, giggled and slouched, looking bored. Wilson was found guilty of 13 charges, including five murders, one rape and three attempted murders. Fortuin said she based her sentence on three major factors; socio-economic circumstances, the seriousness of the crime and possible rehabilitation. She said the three life terms derived from the murders of 18-year-old Lekita Moore, 16-year-old Stacey-Lee Mohale and Toyher Stober. Lekita was stabbed 98 times by Wilson while Stacey-Lee was raped, stoned and then set alight. He was also given a life sentence for a rape charge. The rape survivor testified twice during trial proceedings. Fortuin said looking at Wilson’s background he came from a stable family despite being raised in Heinz Park, a community infested with drugs and gangs. “Millions of children grew up in such communities, but did not rape or kill. None of the victims did anything to provoke you before you killed them. “You had opportunities to show sympathy and remorse, but chose not to.” At the mention of the murder of the two teens, Wilson showed a smirk, followed by a giggle before moving restlessly on the bench. He also wiped his face a few times and rolled his eyes at the mention of the four life terms. But it was the noise from the gallery that appeared to have amused Wilson. Satisfaction Residents from Valhalla Park made their satisfaction with the sentence known as they cheered and applauded Fortuin as she walked out of court two. Some stepped out shouting: “You will rot in jail” and “Murderer!” Lekita’s father, Charles Moore, said he was happy with the sentence, but still bore the pain of losing his daughter. “I cry every night for my child. She was my everything. He took my source of energy away. She is never coming back to us.” Moore said he hoped Wilson would be sent to a prison far away from the Western Cape. “He must feel the way we feel. No one should be able to see him, not even his family. He is a serial killer.” State prosecutor Advocate Carine Teunissen, said: “He was cruel and the crimes he committed were gruesome. 
He disrespected women and enjoyed manipulating them and when they 
defied him, he lashed out at them.” The National Prosecuting Authority’s Eric Ntabazalila said the court had described Wilson as “a serial killer and a psychopath with limited chances of rehabilitation”. He said the State would oppose any appeal. “We hope the families will find closure. It will not happen now, it will take time.” Roegshanda Pascoe of the Manenberg Safety Forum said she and its members were happy with the sentence. “The judge sent out a strong message.” Wilson will be eligible for parole after serving 25 years. Daily News