The by-elections would be held in North West, Limpopo, KwaZulu-Natal and Western Cape. An independent candidate and 24 candidates representing nine political parties would contest the by-elections. In KZN, ward 33 in the Msunduzi municipality is contested by Rienus Niemand of the African Christian Democratic Party (ACDP); Vuyani Freedom Rangxa of the ANC; Cassim Parak of the Al Jama-AH; Nkululeko Fortune Mkhize of the DA; Siyabonga Myaka of the EFF; and James Edward Peter Green of the IFP. The ward was previously represented by the DA and became vacant as a result of the resignation of the councillor. In North West, Ward 1 in the Naledi municipality will be contested by Grace Gamma of the ANC; Alfred Lekgetho of the DA; Diketo Edward Jankies of the EFF; and Onthusitse Albert Semaha of the Forum 4 Service Delivery. The ward was previously represented by the ANC and became vacant after the death of the councillor. The voter turnout for this ward in the 2016 municipal elections was 57.97%, and the ANC won with 54.93% of votes. Campaigned DA leader Mmusi Maimane campaigned in Stella on Monday, where he promised to work hard to repay the voters’ trust if they voted for DA candidate Alfred Lekgetho. “We will listen to your concerns, we will respond to your needs and make sure the will of the people of Stella is truly represented,” Maimane said. Two ward by-elections take place in Limpopo. Ward 9 in the Mogalakwena municipality will be contested by Rapula William Mafora, an independent candidate; Tjalapa Lucas Mooka of the ANC; Titus Moutlua Mokoka of the DA; and Sello Joel Sinwamadi of the EFF. The ward was previously represented by the ANC and became vacant as a result of the death of the councillor. In Modimolle/Mookgopong, Ward 1 is contested by Moswana Stoffel Seodisa of the ANC; Eric Soeu Aphane of the DA; and Klaas Mabula of the EFF. The ward was previously represented by the ANC. In the Western Cape, Ward 4 in the City of Cape Town is to be contested by Nomaxhosa Mejeni of the ACDP; Luthando Goodman Lekevana of the ANC; Mogamad Ganief Ebrahim Hendricks of the Al Jama-AH; Jack Lawrence Miller of the Cape Party; Pamela Olga Overmeyer of the Democratic Independent Party; and Siyabulela Mani of the EFF. The ward was previously represented by the DA. ANA