Durban - A sixth cash-in-transit gang member died in hospital after a high-speed chase and shoot-out in Durban on Monday. The man is believed to be a part of a gang of nine men who robbed a G4S cash van at a Springfield shopping centre. The gang was allegedly dressed in reflector vests and pretended to be construction workers repairing the road. A G4S spokesperson confirmed the guards were collecting money from a customer when the robbery happened. “As the security officer left the customer’s premises, an armed man grabbed the cash-carrying device. The security officer took cover and gunfire was exchanged between the robbers, our security officers and the police,” the spokesperson said. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said: “Police responded quickly and gave chase. When the suspects saw the police, they began firing and the police retaliated. One man was killed and another injured. Police arrested three men at the scene. They also recovered pistols from the men,” said Gwala. The men were driving a silver Mercedes-Benz and an Opel Corsa. Gwala added that the chase continued through the busy area and ended in Parlock, where the shoot-out continued. “Four suspects were shot dead. Police recovered pistols and rifles in the car used by the gang. “Police also recovered the cash box that was taken during the robbery. The box contained an undisclosed amount of money,” said Gwala. A sixth suspect died in hospital. Garrith Jamieson, Rescue Care spokesperson, said they treated four people who were injured in the crossfire. “We treated four civilians in Parlock Drive where the suspects’ cars stopped and the shoot-out ensued. Two people were seriously injured after being shot and two others were treated for minor injuries sustained during the ordeal,” said Jamieson. A police officer was also shot in the crossfire and taken to hospital for further care. Maveshin Odayar, from a private security company that responded to residents’ calls for help, said they cordoned off the area while police continued to search for other gang members. Gwala could not confirm how many suspects were outstanding. A Parlock resident said he was drinking his tea on the balcony of his home when he heard gunshots outside. “First, there were two gunshots. Next I heard a lot more. I just ducked down. After a while I saw police vans rushing to the businesses at the bottom,” he said. Another man, who works at the factories where the gang was shot dead, said he and a group of workers were about to go on their lunch break when they saw one of the gang members’ cars speed into the parking area. “Police and security cars were close behind them and we heard shouting and gunshots. We ducked down. A cop pulled my friend, thinking he was a suspect and pushed him to the ground. We all shouted that he was not involved and they let him go,” the worker said. At the scene, a group of men, believed to know the gang, arrived and stood back while police continued to comb the area for the remaining man. They were seen questioning people on the events preceding the men’s fatal end before getting into a car and driving off. Two women also arrived at the scene and looked on as police lifted fingerprints from the gang’s car. One of the woman was talking on her cellphone and seemed concerned. Mxolisi Kaunda, Transport, Community Safety and Liaison MEC, commended the police for their bravery. “The writing’s on the wall for all criminals who even have the slightest idea they could try their luck in attacking the police. No police officer must die at the hands of the criminals. The recent incidents and the quick response by members of the police force are a clear indication that our men and women in blue have enough capacity and are equipped to protect society,” he said. This was the third such incident in as many weeks. On August 4, three men were killed in a shoot-out with police along the N2 near Nandi Drive. The gang was allegedly on its way to commit a robbery when it was intercepted by police. A week later, six men were killed in a botched cash-in-transit robbery. Daily News