Durban - The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Education has had its hands full this past month as it navigated one crisis after another. If teachers were not issuing corporal punishment to children, they were allegedly calling them monkeys. The power of social media has played a pivotal role with many of the incidents being captured by pupils themselves on their smartphones. Here is a recap of some the issues that have made headlines this month Assegai Primary School To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Parents and the community of Wentworth have shut down Assegai Primary on numerous occasions, against the appointment of a new principal. They want deputy principal, Odette Abrahams to take the job. George Campbell School of Technology To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Pupils at George Campbell school have been protesting outside the school after they spoke out against the alleged racism they experience from teachers. Some of the pupils said they have been called monkeys by some of the teachers. Okumhlophe Secondary School To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Two teachers were caught on camera caning pupils. One of the incidents took place at Okumhlophe school in uMlazi, where a female teacher canes pupils on their backs as a form of punishment. Richards Bay Secondary School Two video clips showing violence at the school went viral on social media. In the first clip a group of boys walk across a school field and one reveals what appears to be a panga and slams it into another boy, which leads the crowd to scream and disperse. The second clip shows a group of boys fighting and one boy appears to be carrying a panga and attacks another boy with it. Siyathuthuka Secondary School To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. A video showing a male pupil assaulting a female pupil on school grounds, in full school uniform went viral. The male pupil later appeared in Ntuzuma Magistrate’s Court and was released on R1 500 bail. The Department of Education in KwaZulu-Natal has taken a keen interest in these incidents and the MEC for Education in the province, Mthandeni Dlungwane has visited some of the above schools. Daily News