He was testifying at the Moerane Commission of Inquiry into political killings in KwaZulu-Natal. Pithouse said people were socialised differently and the “civil war” that hit the province in the 1980s seemed to have been normalised and accepted. The commission heard that people who showed willingness to do anything to get to the top were manipulated by politicians. “Those with the capacity for violence are moved to the front by politicians as a means to achieve political power. Factions exist, but these are about power and not about ideology. An ethnic dimension plays a part in the underlying causes of this political violence. “A person from the Eastern Cape would be sidelined from political or community matters. Those from other provinces, but who have worked closely with those from the Eastern Cape would also be sidelined and not be seen as qualifying to have space within certain political areas. The democratic discourse took a military approach even after apartheid,” Pithouse said. He said it had been “very striking” for him over the years that if he wrote online about corruption the article would get many readers, but when he wrote about an impoverished African person, very little interest was shown. “There’s very little regard for the African poor and disadvantaged,” he said. Evidence leader advocate Bheki Manyathi asked Pithouse to elaborate on what he had earlier termed a “military approach” when exposing the democratic discourse. Pithouse explained that after 1994, President Jacob Zuma adopted a theme song, Awulethe umshini wami (bring me my machine gun), and this was taken as a military stance. He said even the ANC Youth League, while Zuma faced various charges, including rape, proclaimed that they were prepared to kill for him. Power “This was a militarised discourse. When people in power attempt to militarise society, then that’s where the problem lies. At the end of apartheid there was still violence between the ANC and IFP; in Richmond there was violence; in the birth of the National Freedom Party there was violence,” he said. Manyathi asked if the professor thought that socio-economic conditions, political power or political competition played a vital role in the underlying causes of political violence. “Many people live incredibly hard lives, but they are honest. There are cases where there are inequalities that don’t fester into such political violence, so we need to be careful when talking about this issue. “When it comes to political violence, stability can be maintained by policing, not by people who will be easily influenced by local power brokers, but by people from the outside. “People are not only competing for councillors’ salaries, they are also competing for tenders. Stringent measures in place are needed to ensure that these are not easily accessible. An actual solution to the crisis would require taking democracy seriously,” he said. Professor Cheryl Potgieter, one of the commissioners, asked Pithouse’s view on the argument by certain individuals that the Glebelands Hostel killings required that the uMlazi hostel be closed down. “Equality is kind of abstract. We are coming from a colonial period, and architecture for a place like Glebelands is coming from Brazil. You can’t destroy shacks, for example, because those are people’s homes,” Pithouse responded. Another commissioner, advocate Vasu Gounden, pushed for more views from Pithouse. “We have not dealt with poverty, inequality and unemployment in the recent past. What would be your prognosis in that context?” Pithouse said there was no route to a viable life. “There’s no political party that’s looking into the emancipation of communities regardless of which side they support. Our economy is not growing fast enough to cater for all. Elites can prosper and ordinary people are kept in the mixture of violence and poverty. “If we stay in the current course we stand to end up like Russia, India, Colombia and Mexico. We have to keep the political space open for democratic engagement and to keep the possibility of developing that space. If things are kept authoritarian, we could find ourselves like Mexico,” he said. The commission continues. Daily News