“Where does this money go to? Who selects the companies to do the job? This is plain corruption because, as you can see, we remove our own garbage from our corridors to the skips until they overflow. The last time garbage was collected here was about a month ago,” said a Block 56 resident, who did not want to be named. The Daily News visited the area on Wednesday and was immediately hit by the odour from the uncollected rubbish, while children played around it, oblivious to the health hazard. A Block Q resident said it was their daily routine to empty their bins in the skip. “Sadly, some of us just throw garbage in the corridors and driveways. The solution is for the municipality to take over this hostel because with rules in place, and possibility of penalties, people would behave. We hear about these tenders, but to us they are just tenders. There are health risks for our children here,” said a mother. According to a report tabled at the full council sitting at the Durban ICC recently, an oversight had occurred when making provisions for budgetary requirements to accommodate an empowerment programme for subcontractors. The main contractors were appointed in 2014 at a cost of R74.5 million and in December 2015, the eThekwini Cleaning and Solid Waste Unit was authorised to appoint subcontractors for areas where cleaning and waste collection was not provided. However, the budgetary implications were not taken into consideration, hence the request and approval of the R7.3 million for this purpose. The DA  disagreed with the approval, citing a breach of the Municipal Finance Management Act and said it could result in wasteful expenditure. Zwakele Mncwango, provincial DA leader, said he would write to the Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs Department and report the “transgression”. “Councillors can’t be involved in direct awarding of tenders without being approached by the accounting officer, as per the procedure, to approve financial allocation for the extension of municipal programmes,” Mncwango said. It is not clear how the subcontractors would be selected. Mthunzi Gumede, mayor Zandile Gumede’s spokesperson, said the hostel situation would be reported to the mayor for urgent action. Delangokubona KZN Business Forum blamed “corrupt officials” for the non-collection of rubbish. Bhamuza Mnyandu, the forum spokesperson, said they had uncovered a manager at Durban Solid Waste who had included 15 “ghost” subcontractors to the list of refuse collectors. “We had a meeting with the municipality  where we tabled evidence that some subcontractors did not exist. We will have another meeting today with other business forums and the municipality to chat about a way forward,” Mnyandu said. Daily News