DURBAN - Cosatu in KwaZulu-Natal  said their support for Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa to become ANC president had nothing to do with factionalism, but was an attempt to unite the ANC.
Edwin Mkhize, Cosatu provincial secretary, said they had seen, in the media, many structures of the movement being vocal on their favourite candidates. The union had pronounced “very firmly and clearly” it was supporting Ramaphosa to become the next president, he said. “You cannot be associated with factions when you talk about someone who is already a current deputy president because there’s a very linear line between a president and a deputy president. “So how is it that you are a faction if you’re talking about someone who is already a deputy president? We’re also saying that what can unite us as a movement is someone who is already there,” Mkhize said. When Cosatu in KZN endorsed Ramaphosa it also said it was not going to criticise other ANC candidates because it considered them leaders. The union was concerned about the lack of consequences for people who bad-mouthed Ramaphosa on social media and in the media. Mkhize said the union wanted to engage with the ANC “soberly” on the matter so the party understands Cosatu’s “posture” because they were talking about a current leader of the party, not an unknown. It was opportunistic to associate Cosatu with factionalism when the union raised such issues, he said. “The president of the ANC who, in terms of the traditions, cultures and policies of the ANC, will become the president of our country is a matter of interest to us because we are in an alliance with the ANC. “If we can’t raise these matters of who becomes the president of the country with the ANC then where can we raise them? Hence, we said we cannot allow leaders of the movement to be mechanical or dogmatic on these issues.” Mkhize said if Cosatu could not vote for who becomes the president of the country, with an organisation it was in an alliance with, it would create problems. Cosatu KZN was encouraged by what it had seen in the province with many structures acknowledging and accepting Ramaphosa as someone who could become a good ANC president. Phakama Ndunakazi, provincial secretary of the National Education Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) - a Cosatu affiliate - said the Cosatu PEC had agreed that Ramaphosa would visit workplaces in the province to interact with members. “He must be seen, as we did with comrade JZ (Jacob Zuma), when he was expelled by Thabo Mbeki,” Ndunakazi said. Meanwhile, Cosatu said instability confronting the eThekwini Municipality, including the “haphazard” suspensions of senior officials, should be confronted by the alliance. “There are so many senior officials’ resignations in the eThekwini Municipality and that cannot just happen on its own. “We have seen the municipality, on many occasions, being in the media for bad reasons. “We really need to engage on these matters closely as the alliance through the Alliance Political Council and identify the problems there,” he said. Daily News