The families of Thapelo Mabebe, a mineworker, and Tsietsi Monene, a police officer, who were killed in the days leading up to the tragedy of August 16, 2012, said yesterday their lives had changed irrevocably. The families described how painful it was to be treated like “filth” by the government, political parties, Lonmin and the media, saying all the attention fell on the mineworkers’ families, “as if our loved ones were not human”. The two were among the 10 killed days before 34 mineworkers were gunned down by police officers. Mabebe’s older sister, Hester, said her brother was murdered because he refused to take part in the illegal strike that led to the bloodbath. “He was violently hacked to death with a panga inside the Lonmin premises while he was on his way to work. It looked like he was trying to run away from his assailants, because his blood trail was all over the mine’s premises,” she said. Hester said Mabebe’s two eldest children, teenagers at the time, had to drop out of school because they could not afford their monthly bus fare. Mabebe’s youngest son, aged eight, is in primary school. His children live in Taung, in North West, but go to school in Pampierstad 40km away, because there is no high school in their village. “We are heartbroken, because every year around this time we think about how life would’ve been a bit better with Thapelo around. He would have helped out financially and emotionally, as he used to do.” Her pain is echoed by Monene’s older sister, Elizabeth Maubane, who related what she felt was the brutality meted out to her brother, claiming Monene was killed by mineworkers he was protecting. Hacked “My brother was hacked with a panga on the head. He was also shot three times and there were multiple stab wounds on his body,” Maubane said. She described the trauma suffered by her brother’s six children, the youngest of whom was only four months old when his father died. “The children had a lot of anger in the beginning, but they went for counselling. They are still traumatised.” Both families expressed their displeasure with Judge Ian Farlam’s Commission of Inquiry, set up by President Jacob Zuma to ascertain whether anyone was to blame for Marikana. No individual was held accountable for the killings. The families said the commission did not help them get closure. No one bothers to invite them to Marikana commemorations, they said. The Daily News’s sister newspaper, The Star, on Monday visited Marikana and found that it was still largely undeveloped, especially the Nkanini informal settlement. Lungisile Madwantsi, one of the massacre survivors, who is partially paralysed from a bullet lodged in his skull, said despite Lonmin building low-cost housing for its workers, nothing much had changed. Nkanini is still untarred, with erratic water supply, lack of toilets and no recreational facilities. Bongani Hlopo, a mineworker in Nkanini, said: “It’s like our lives are standing still, because most of us have not benefited from the spilling of our blood five years ago. We keep hearing promises from the government and Lonmin, but nothing changes.” But Madwantsi said he did not regret taking part in the strike action that left 44 people dead. He said he was willing to do it again. “I don’t have any regrets. I was only helping myself and my fellow workers address something that was making us unhappy. I didn’t know that it would end in a bloodbath. Nobody could have predicted that, but I’m happy that I was part of that history,” said Madwantsi, 35, speaking from his one-bedroom flat in Wonderkop Hostel in Marikana yesterday. Last month he received his first R12500 salary, an increase of R1000. Two years ago, Lonmin relocated him from his shack in Nkanini to the hostel. “I’m happy to finally reap the rewards of my sacrifice, but I’m still not sure if all of us have received the increase. The house is smaller than what I’m used to, but it’s better than a shack in a muddy squatter camp.” Daily News