Debbie Engels said on Thursday: “I just want justice for my daughter. It’s not about money; it’s about justice. She attacked my child for no reason.” Her daughter, 20-year-old Gabrielle, was not allowed to speak to avoid “trial by media”. The full-time model was at a media briefing in Centurion, hosted by civil rights organisation AfriForum at which it was announced that advocate Gerrie Nel would represent her in her bid for justice. It was also disclosed that a blank cheque was allegedly offered on behalf of the first lady to persuade Gabrielle to drop the charges, but she rejected it. She laid criminal charges against Mugabe this week, after claiming Mugabe assaulted her when she found her with her sons at a flat in Sandton. Gabrielle had a bandage on her forehead where Mugabe allegedly hit her with an electric plug. Nel confirmed that financial compensation “by a third party” had been offered. He would not be drawn into divulging the names behind the offer. “No one is above the law and we should demonstrate that,” said Nel. Police had been keeping tabs on Mugabe to ensure that she did not leave the country, Police Minister Fikile Mbalula said. “We are liaising with all involved in the matter of the suspect (Grace Mugabe) who was supposed to appear in court but did not. We, as the SAPS, have already put tabs on the borders in relation to her leaving the country The red alert has been put (out),” Mbalula said. “Anybody who comes to South Africa must know that we are a constitutional state, and we are a law state,” he said. “It has come to our attention that it (the case of Grace Mugabe) might have not only immunity, but diplomatic implications. From the perspective of the police we have done what we could. “The matter is with the police. It is not just a case of an ordinary person. It has all those implications that must be attended to,” said Mbalula. Robert Mugabe arrived in Pretoria on Wednesday night for the 37th SADC Heads of State and Government Summit. He reportedly arrived earlier than scheduled so he could intervene in his wife’s matter. Daily News