DURBAN - The Napier Centre 4 Healing, a new after-care facility for post-rehab drug-addiction patients, is expected to open in the new year in Ekukhanyeni Mission, near Verulam in the Iqadi region of the KwaZulu-Natal North Coast.
Cardinal Wilfrid Napier OFM on Wednesday hosted a function at St Joseph’s parish in Morningside where this announcement was made to leaders of civil society, the media, faith community, city officials and stakeholders. The function was also attended by the centre’s new patrons, executive and support team. The Napier Centre 4 Healing is a project being championed by Napier. It follows in the footsteps of the successful interfaith facility, the Denis Hurley Centre, which does innovative multi-pronged campaigning and support work for the city’s destitute and marginalised. The cardinal has prioritised the establishment of a recovery centre for drug addicts who have completed the formal rehab process. Initially, the centre would be able to accommodate 14 adult men. Further phases would allow facilities to be extended to women. “Statistics are alarming - the state rehab facilities boast less than a 2% success rate. So much of society’s challenges in regards to broken families, crime and community tension can be traced to street-level substance abuse. The need to support recovering addicts is enormous. We are committed to challenging our resources into helping with this insurmountable social challenge,” said Napier. The Napier Centre 4 Healing would provide the secondary care that most addicts require, with the opportunity to continue residential rehabilitation for up to 12 months. The programme would be headed by a house “mother and father” on site, with the services of specialist professionals. The centre would be open to all denominations and a strong effort would be made to help residents reconnect with their spiritual roots. The final phase of the programme would include training for employment to give recovering addicts a sense of ownership of their own lives. Daily News