This was confirmed by the ANC on Thursday. Khoza could not be reached for comment as her cellphone was off. But an analyst warned that her axing has shown deep divisions in the ANC, which was starting to affect the operations of Parliament. This followed a boycott of the meeting of the committee by five ANC MPs, who oppose Khoza. ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu said the irretrievable breakdown in relations had led to the firing of Khoza, after a few months on the job. ANC caucus spokesperson Nonceba Mhlauli said there had been several attempts to counsel Khoza over her comments and spats with fellow colleagues, but to no avail. “The irretrievable breakdown of relations arises from her public utterances preceding the motion of no-confidence vote in President Jacob Zuma and her continued public attacks on the ANC leadership and members of her ANC caucus who voted against the motion on 8 August,” said Mhlauli. “Comrade Khoza’s continued public attacks have led to her alienating ANC MPs, including those in her committee, resulting in an ill-advised and out-of-line decision to boycott any activity she is involved in. “The erosion of trust in her as a chairperson also led to acrimonious verbal exchanges between her and members of the study group in meetings and on social media,” said Mhlauli. Khoza was a member of the standing committee on finance before she was deployed to chair the public service and administration committee. The committee was previously chaired by Peace Mabe before her ill-fated attempt to run for the position of mayor of Mogale City. Mabe is now back in Parliament and is a member of the finance committee. Head of politics at Unisa, Professor Dirk Kotze, said Khoza’s axing left a question mark over whether the ANC would continue to hold Public Service and Administration Minister Faith Muthambi accountable for blowing thousands of rand to fly her friends and relatives to attend her budget speech in May. Questions He also said there were still many questions on reports of Muthambi hiring friends and relatives in the department, allegations Khoza wanted to put to her before she boycotted the meeting together with the five ANC MPs. Kotze said the firing of Khoza was the culmination of many events over the past few months. This also related to disciplinary charges by the ANC in KwaZulu-Natal. “The immediate reason is the boycott by members of the ANC in the committee. Factionalism in the ANC is playing itself out in Parliament. "That is what the ANC must avoid at all costs because it affects that important institution,” said Kotze. He said Khoza was willing to take Muthambi to the cleaners, but the minister boycotted the meeting together with the five ANC MPs. He said she was not lost to Parliament as she continued to serve as an MP and can continue to be critical and do what former finance minister Pravin Gordhan is doing in the portfolio committee on public enterprises. The DA also slammed the ANC for axing Khoza, saying the party's factional fights had spilt over into Parliament and were affecting the business of the National Assembly. DA chief whip John Steenhuisen said this should not be tolerated. He said the infighting in the ANC had reached high proportions and no one was safe, especially those opposed to Zuma. “The message this sends to other chairpersons and office-bearers in Parliament is that if they do their job and fulfil their constitutional obligations in trying to force accountability they will be punished,” said Steenhuisen. The ANC has not said where it will deploy Khoza. Daily News