DURBAN - The ANC in KwaZulu-Natal yesterday said it would not discipline Bheki Cele following his remarks at the ANC’s Cadres’ Forum on Monday on the South Coast. Cele had spoken about the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) making the wrong call in allowing the 2015 Provincial Elective Conference to go ahead. Cele said this now saw the conference’s results being contested in the Pietermaritzburg High Court by disgruntled ANC members who want the results nullified. Super Zuma, ANC provincial secretary, said Cele was exposing himself as a member of the NEC and Cele meant that he himself was wrong in taking the decision. “I think the branches know the confusion we have in the NEC that people take decisions then sometimes want to criticise themselves and disown the decisions they have made. “It shows the challenge we have in the NEC where we’re expecting these members of the NEC to lead and lead properly, but they sow divisions in the organisation,” Zuma said. He said they felt Cele’s remarks were immaterial as it was just exposing him and it was up to the branches to judge the type of leader Cele was. Political analyst Bheki Mngomezulu said he did not see the ANC taking disciplinary action against Cele for his remarks on the ANC NEC or his stance on the Guptas and their relationship with President Jacob Zuma. “With those who have had disciplinary action taken against them, such as Makhosi Khoza, it’s not that they only criticised the Guptas, but it’s the way they handled issues before the August 8 motion of no-confidence in Parliament. “Basically the issues they were addressing and the manner in which they were addressing them is a bit different from Ndosi (Cele). At one point, Cele even said he was embarrassed to be a member of the NEC because of the decisions they had taken that he felt had an adverse effect on the party,” Mngomezulu said. He said Cele was criticising the manner in which the NEC had handled issues instead of criticising the president like Derek Hanekom, Mondli Gungubele and Makhosi Khoza had done. “Although we know that the picture that is being painted is that the Guptas are associated with the president, some of us know the truth is that the Guptas didn’t show up in the picture because President Zuma was in power; they’ve been in the picture for some time,” Mngomezulu said. Zuma had even admitted to being introduced to the Guptas by former president Thabo Mbeki, he said. “When the ANC was in exile the Guptas helped the party with uniforms it used for training when it didn’t have the money. So the history of the Guptas is a long one, but the difference now is that their rise makes it seem like they’re now running the country,” said Mngomezulu. The issue around the succession debate, which Cele raised when he called for the deputy president to succeed the incumbent ANC president, was a tricky one, he said, because there was no rule in the party’s constitution that suggested a deputy should succeed the incumbent president. Daily News