City law enforcement spokesperson Wayne Dyason said a Transport Enforcement Unit on duty on Sunday night in Mitchells Plain was alerted by members of the public to the rape in progress of a little girl in bushes near Kapteinsklip Station in the Rocklands suburb. “The officers went to investigate but the suspect fled,” he said. “The officers took the child to Mitchells Plain police station where the brave little girl informed the officers there that she knew the suspect. “She showed the officers where he lived in Tafelsig, Mitchells Plain. SAPS officers arrested him and in the process found him in possession of an illegal firearm and also discovered he was HIV positive. The victim was taken to hospital and will remain there for now.” Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said Mitchells Plain police were investigating a case of the rape of a 5-year-old girl. “A 49-year-old man was arrested and once charged will appear in the Mitchells Plain Magistrate’s Court,” she said. Last night the little girl was still being treated at Red Cross Children’s Hospital for her ordeal. The child’s traumatised mother was taken to a clinic by members of the Mitchells Plain Crisis Forum as a precaution due to her pregnancy. The family could not be interviewed yesterday. Mitchells Plain Crisis Forum chairperson Joanie Fredericks said the organisation condemned the rape. “The perpetrator lives on the doorstep of the office of the forum and this incident is seen as a personal attack on the forum,” she said. “The fact that the victim is so young speaks of absolute disregard and lack of humanity. The fact that he knows the child and her family paints a disturbing picture of how calculated these perpetrators are and this might be a repeat offence.” Forum spokesperson Faizel Brown said: “The situation is still a bit volatile as the family and the child need trauma counselling and that process is under way. “Despite this being Women’s Month there have been several cases (against women and girls) reported during this month. The cases have not decreased and we are very upset at this situation. “A lot of the perpetrators are repeat offenders. Because the child is still very young, the impact is quite traumatic and it can also be lasting. ‘‘We are dealing with the situation with a lot of sensitivity.” Brown said the organisation was offering full support to the family. “Most people are not prepared for or know how to handle such a situation. ‘‘So we are doing an assessment of what their needs are and how to proceed. ‘‘We are trying to make sure the family has every support,” he said. Social Development MEC Albert Fritz’s spokesperson Sihle Ngobese said: “Social workers found out through social media and through contacts with the local community, and immediately searched for the child’s parents details in order to render assistance. “When we went to visit the family, members of the  community had rallied and gathered at the victim’s house,” Ngobese said. “Some teachers from the (child’s) educare and some children were in the house. Religious leaders and groups also visited the family to support them. “Trauma debriefing and supportive counselling were provided to the concerned family, and social workers advised the family to seek further medical attention as they appear to be extremely traumatised.”  chevon.booysen@inl.co.za   dominic.adriaanse@inl.co.za  Cape Times   