Bhekumuzi Simon Ntuli, 51, pleaded guilty in the Pinetown Regional Court to his role in the robbery and murder of 32-year-old Verulam resident Mpilo Nxumalo. Nxumalo was a father of two boys, and his pregnant girlfriend is expecting their third child soon. Nxumalo’s elder brother, Ntokozo, was unimpressed with Ntuli’s apology for the murder. “Nothing will bring him back. My mother cannot get over the murder,” he said. He added that Ntuli had taken away a breadwinner. Ntokozo was grateful for the work of the police and the justice system. “Nobody will be satisfied with the punishment handed out in court. It would never replace the person lost. But at least he has 25 years to think of what he did. The last five months have been very painful for our family. “We want to be strong and keep his memory alive for his sons who lost their father at a very young age. They are aged six and seven,” he said. According to Ntuli’s guilty plea, read out to the court by his advocate, TC Khuzwayo, the heist took place in March while the security guards were filling the ATMs at the Standard Bank in Moodie Street, in Pinetown. Ntuli, a father of 10 children, pleaded guilty to murder, robbery, two attempted murders and the unlawful possession of a firearm and ammunition. In his guilty plea, Ntuli told the court that a friend and seven strangers had met to discuss the plan. They had received information that an SBV vehicle would arrive at the bank at 7am with cash to load into the ATMs. The men staked out the bank in two cars on March 29. They planned how they would commit the robbery and set the date for March 31. That morning they were all armed and arrived in two cars. When the SBV van arrived, they waited for the security guard, who was armed with a rifle, to step out of the vehicle. A second security guard stepped out carrying the money bags. Ntuli walked towards the ATMs, following the guard with the money bags. When he got close to the ATMs, Ntuli shot the guard in the head. “The guard tried to stand. I shot him in the head again. He fell to the floor. I took his pistol from his chest holster.” he said. Ntuli then heard gunshots and realised his co-accused were shooting at the other guards. One of his co-accused picked up the money bags and ran to their vehicle. “I ran to the vehicle to get in, but they drove off leaving me behind. I tried to run away, but the SBV vehicle followed me. I tried to jump over a fence. The SBV vehicle hit the fence and the fence fell on my leg injuring me,” Ntuli said. An injured Ntuli tried running away. He was then confronted by members of the community. They demanded he hand over his firearm which he did, but kept the pistol taken from the guard. He tried escaping into a taxi, but people had surrounded the taxi. Police arrested him. The court also heard that the surviving security guard, Prince Thulasizwe Buthelezi, 22, was shot 22 times. Magistrate Logan Naidoo combined all counts and took into consideration that Ntuli pleaded guilty, when handing down his sentence. “There is a family out there who are suffering because of you. You and your cohorts are brazen and lack the will to work,” Naidoo said. He felt that had Ntuli not been caught red-handed, he would have fled. Senior State advocate Mahen Naidu told the court it was a violent incident with all the hallmarks of organised crime. Naidu said at Ntuli’s age he should not have associated himself with those planning a robbery. He should have known better. Ntuli apologised to the court and Nxumalo’s family before heading to the cells. Three of the remaining suspects are expected to appear in court today.