Speaking to the Daily News, some criticised the government for wanting to implement the policy in the country’s declining economy, and said it was a recipe for disaster. Others said they would rather do their own housework to avoid conflict with the law. Robert Naidoo, of Phoenix, said he supported the policy as a deterrent to catch employers who were exploiting and underpaying domestic workers. However, he felt most of the employers in the Indian community could not afford to increase wages to a minimum of R3 500. Naidoo said the policy would do more harm than good. “Most Indian households which employ domestic workers are not rich, but pay for the services and are creating jobs. The elderly earning government pensions employ domestic workers because they need them. “Now to make them commit to a certain amount would create problems, and we will find more households dumping these services,” he said. Naidoo paid his domestic worker R2200 a month for a three-day weekly shift. He said this was, however, not the rate that employers in uMhlanga, Sunningdale and other wealthy suburbs paid their domestic workers. Now Read: Domestic workers tired of exploitation “The best way to remedy the situation is to reduce taxes. I do not have a problem with paying my helper a decent living wage, but where am I expected to get the money from when the biggest chunk of my salary goes to tax?” asked Naidoo. Sthandiwe Myeni, a high school teacher, said she paid her full-time helper R1600 a month and could not afford to give her more. “If the government is going to force me to pay more, I will unfortunately have to do the cleaning myself. I do not want to get into trouble with the law.” Tracy Naicker commented on the Daily News Facebook page: “Some people starting jobs after four years of studying get paid R3500 a month seems like there will be lots of unemployed people.” Alice Maingard said: “At least. Too much exploitation.” Colleen Ledger Barnard said: “The question I ask myself is would I clean someone’s house every day, Monday to Friday, for R3500 per month. The answer is No! So I clean my own.” Doraan Gys Cilliers said: “LOL joke of the year!” Brent Jansen said: “Just now the government will be taxing domestic workers that’s just the way our country operates only help for benefits.” Ria Weideman Berullier said: “Well I can tell you that if it’s true, then bye-bye to my domestic I am not employed, but do have a part-time coaching job and all the money I make goes towards her salary guess that will not be the case in the new year.” Brendon Germaine said: “I think unemployment might just rise.” Daily News