Super Zuma, ANC provincial secretary, said they were finalising the membership audit process and only memberships in good standing (meaning they have paid up their membership fees) can participate in the branch general meetings. Zuma dismissed suggestions that the nominations would begin on Friday, saying the NEC would give the go-ahead. “A voters roll (membership roll) is compiled and will be used on the day, with the branch general meeting held according to the ANC’s constitution, stipulating that 50% of the members, plus one, must be present for the meeting to be valid. “Thereafter, the branch can choose its own delegates and then nominate leadership candidates, including NEC members,” Zuma said. The nominations of a branch’s delegates, its nominated party leadership and NEC members are sent to a ballot that will be opened and viewed by the Independent Electoral Commission of SA (IEC), which will be in charge of the voting process at the national elective conference. “After the branch general meetings there is an auditing process to check if there was a quorum consisting of 50% of the branch's members, plus one member,” Zuma said. To verify this the members’ signatures on the attendance register (voters roll) are checked against members' signatures on their membership forms and vice versa. “If the branch passes this process it then declares, based on its membership, how many delegates it will be sending to the national elective conference,” he added. He explained that the number of delegates sent depended on the membership of the branch, but he pointed out that delegates would be allocated to branches proportionally. “If a branch has five delegates they will all vote or if it has one delegate that delegate will vote,” Zuma explained. At the conference each delegate from each branch will be able to vote. When the IEC reveals the names of those nominated, the delegates will then proceed to vote from the floor. “From there the delegates go on to vote individually. It’s the same voting process used by the IEC during elections. That’s how it usually happens." On when the voting process would commence at the five-day conference, Zuma said that would depend on the IEC. He said they did not yet have an agenda for the elective conference. “Those things are finalised at the last NEC meeting before the conference, so it’s too early to know when voting will take place,” Zuma said. Daily News