Nkosi said he was concerned that the latest proclamation came while Zuma had not yet released a report on another investigation the unit had conducted on the same department in 2015. At the weekend, Zuma announced the investigation, saying the provincial treasury had a long list of misconduct allegations. Speaking on Tuesday, Nkosi, an ANC MPL, said as the ­committee chairperson, he had never had any suspicions about  the provincial treasury. Nkosi said he hoped those who called for the investigation had information to go by, which they would appreciate “if the investigation was to get to the truth”. He said the office of Auditor-General Kimi Makwetu had for more than seven consecutive years given the provincial treasury clean audit reports. “Therefore we have no reason to be suspicious. The outcome of the audit and the information we gather on our own has not pointed to any ­suspicious activity,” he said. Zuma had instructed the SIU to investigate allegations of: *  Serious maladministration in connection with the affairs of the treasury; *  Improper or unlawful conduct by officials or employees of the treasury; *  Unlawful appropriation or expenditure of public money or property; *  Unlawful, irregular or unapproved acquisitive act, transaction, measure or practice having a bearing upon State property; *  Intentional or negligent loss of public money or damage to public property; *  Unlawful or improper conduct by any person, which had caused or may cause serious harm to the interests of the public or any category thereof. “It would be unfortunate if this investigation ends up like the previous one, with the outcome still unknown, as it dents the image and standing of the KZN treasury,” Nkosi said. However, the IFP and DA in local parliament welcomed Zuma’s announcement, but also questioned the outcome of the previous one. Blessed Gwala, IFP national chairperson, alleged a syndicate inside the department was stealing state funds. “When we raised these concerns in the legislature, Finance MEC Belinda Scott shrugged them off and said there was nothing illegal happening in the treasury. “It would appear that MEC Scott is protecting certain individuals,” said Gwala. Francois Rodgers, DA leader in the KZN legislature, said the investigation was “a serious indictment against Scott’s leadership”. Simiso Magagula, provincial treasury head, said the department was aware of the pending investigation. “The department will co-operate with the unit on any investigation into the allegations,” he said. The Presidency did not comment in time for publication. Daily News