Durban - The implementation of the national minimum wage for domestic workers from May next year would better the lives of those earning less. For domestic worker Busisiwe Mdletshe, it would mean she could add red meat to her limited grocery list of only the necessities, such as maize meal, sugar, rice, vegetables and chicken. On Sunday, Labour Minister Mildred Oliphant said the national minimum wage of R3 500 a month for those who worked 40 hours a week and R3900 for a 45-hour week, would be implemented from May 1 next year. Employers would be given two years to implement the increases. Mdletshe, who takes care of a 2-year-old child and cleans the house for a family living in Manor Gardens, counted herself as one of the lucky ones to be earning R2850 a month. “It is not enough, but it is something compared to other domestic workers in the area who earn R1600,” she said. She said an additional R650 would mean that she would be able to add beef to her grocery list and save the rest towards building her house in Mtunzini in northern KwaZulu-Natal. Mdletshe, a mother of four children and responsible for raising four grandchildren, said that because she had a big family to support she was forced to buy food that would last for the month. “I cannot afford to buy red meat at all. Beef and takeaways are luxuries we get to have only a few times a year in my household,” she said. From her R2850 wages, Mdletshe spends R320 a month travelling from Ezimbokodweni, near Umgababa, to Manor Gardens. How much three domestic workers earn and what they spend it on. Graphic: Thobeka Ngema About R1600 goes towards groceries and toiletries, and R400 for her electricity for the month. “Building my own house back home has been my lifelong dream. I want to retire one day and have a house to go to.” She stays on a relative’s property and does not pay rent, which is one less expense to worry about. Constance Phezisa, 59, earns R3200 a month working for a family in Morningside. She feels the minimum wage policy will not offer a huge relief for her because, to comply with the law, her employer will increase her salary by just R300. Phezisa sends R1800 to her children in the Eastern Cape each month. Considering the economic decline and high price of food, the increase would not really change her lifestyle. “My priority is to send money home for my children. The money I send them doesn’t really cover all their living expenses. I am forced to survive on maize meal, bread and eggs here,” she said. She said she paid R700 for two clothing accounts, R200 on food and toiletries and paid R50 a month towards church. She appreciated the increase and said she would probably save it towards her retirement. Thobeka Luthuli works for a family in Phoenix and earns R1900 a month. The 55-year-old mother spends R500 a month on transport. Her groceries include rice, maize meal, vegetables and chicken which costs R600 of her monthly salary. “I hardly buy beef and fish because it is expensive. I buy tinned fish. “These groceries do not last my family for the month. I often have to borrow from neighbours to get through the month,” she said. During the Domestic Workers’ Imbizo at the Durban City Hall on Sunday, Oliphant urged domestic workers to blow the whistle on employers who underpaid them and those who did not comply with laws such as registering them for the Unemployment Insurance Fund. Daily News