DURBAN - Hillcrest High School Team 1 and Crawford College La Lucia emerged as winners of the first round of the Daily News Varsity College High School Quiz.
The quiz series started yesterday and was hosted at Westville Boys’ High School (WBHS) and Varsity College, Durban North. The series sees a number of schools from Durban go head-to-head, answering questions on sport, entertainment, politics and current affairs, all gathered from various articles in the Daily News. At WBHS, Al Falaah, St Henry’s Marist College, Star College, uMlazi Comtech, Hillcrest High School, Clifton School and Westville battled it out for top spot, while in Durban North, Seatides High School, Havenpark Secondary School, Northwood School, Crawford College La Lucia and Verulam Secondary School fought to see who would go through to the next round. Speaking to the Daily News after being announced winners, Hillcrest High Team 1 - made up of Mandy Pitchers, Damon Knox-Whitehead, Mpilo Vilakazi and Teag Theron - said they were surprised to win. “We did not expect the questions to be so detail-oriented. We did read the articles, but we did not really pay attention to names. So for the next round, we will make sure to pay attention to the finer details,” said Mandy, the team captain. Damon, Mpilo and Teag joked that they chose Mandy because she had neater handwriting and was “a little smarter” than them. Westville Boys’ came second with uMlazi Comtech and Star College Team 1 taking joint third position. Meanwhile, in Durban North, Havenpark Secondary School was placed second, with Seatides, Northwood and Verulam taking third spot. The Daily News High School Quiz is a partnership between the newspaper and Varsity College, the main sponsor. The final of the competition, a pilot project, would be on September 11. The winning school will receive a cash prize of R20000 with a R150000 bursary and floating trophy. Each team member will receive a cash prize of R2 000. The runners-up will receive R10 000 and a certificate. Daily News