At work, organisations should examine their structures, recruitment selection, performance management and promotion to ensure that it excluded bias. These recommendations come from Professor Anita Bosch, of Stellenbosch University’s Business School, as the country celebrates Women’s Day. She believes that women are still being treated unfairly at home and at work. Her report, Fairness in Relation to Women at Work, was published earlier this year. It explores the roles women play at home and at work that often put them at a disadvantage compared with their male colleagues. “Women are eager to work and have as much aspiration as men. It therefore seems strange that organisations are so stubborn to adapt in order to recognise the patterns of unequal power relations,” she said. Bosch said women were caught up in a power play because they were often unable to articulate a different way of being and acting. Another factor, according to Bosch, was the socialisation of girls to become good mothers and wives. “The main responsibility for parenting is more often than not placed at the feet of women. The ‘good mother’ norm, which is measured by devotion to, and high amounts of time spent on the needs of children, as well as the running a well-functioning household, constrict women. “Outsourcing childcare allegedly makes one a bad mother, and the dutifulness and devotion to a husband’s needs is presented as a woman’s main focus. “Even women who do not have children and single women feel the pressure. “A woman, with or without children, is therefore measured as either a good mother or wife or an ideal worker - seldom both,” Bosch said. Her report said women did not want to rely on family members to help with children, which might lead them to quit  work. “These ‘choices’ are hard ones to make. To add insult to injury, the inequality between men and women with similar credentials, education and abilities is attributed to a lack of talent, effort or desire on the part of women,” she said. Deborah van Heerden, director for the Businesswomen’s Association, echoed Bosch’s findings. “Women often feel that they are not good enough for a position or they do not push hard enough to achieve the greatness in their business. Women are more gentle and softer in nature, and are not driven by huge profits. “Women will work together to grow a community to be a loving, kind place. Men will take that community and try and turn it into a city. “Women are more than capable of achieving success, but the power position that men strive for does not form part of a woman’s make-up. “Having a family and children to nurture acerbates this feeling as we put our families above all else,” said Van Heerden. She added that some companies had excellent gender-empowerment policies, while others did not. Alison Engelbrecht, of Women in Business, said while the conundrum of women in the workplace and their success continued, women allowed themselves to be caught in the guilt trap. “A majority of women, and I include myself, continue to allow ourselves to feel guilty about our professions, our positions as working women and mothers, wives and partners. “Men have supportive structures - golf afternoons, a drink after work, sport that they watch on TV. As women, we put everyone else first,” Engelbrecht said. She encouraged women to join support groups. “I do not mean the professional ones, but the real warm and fuzzy support groups that allow women from all walks of life to be who they are. “There are informal functions and events women can attend which will enable them to find their rightful space and place. “My advice: stop feeling guilty and do it,” she concluded.