This is according to UK-based psychiatry professor, David Nutt, who was called in as the first expert to testify in the trial looking into the legalisation of cannabis on day four of proceedings on Thursday. Nutt was called after the State’s second application to have expert annexes, summaries and articles struck off was dismissed by Judge Natvarlal Ranchod. The judge dismissed the ­application by Leah Gcabashe SC, and Doctors For Life’s advocate, Reg Willis. He said the reasons therefore and costs of the application would be furnished and decided upon at the end of the trial. During his appearance, Nutt gave the court his lengthy resumé, detailing his 40-year experience as a neuropsychopharmacologist. The London-based Imperial College professor told the court that his work focused on researching the effects of drugs on the brain. Nutt said over the years they had observed the use of cannabis in the UK become normalised in society. “Of all the illegal substances, cannabis is the most widely used, and we even dedicated a whole chapter to it. And in the UK, 80% of students reported having used cannabis,” Nutt said. “There is poor evidence of its use because little research is done, particularly because it is illegal, and this becomes a self-serving cycle,” he added. Over the next few days, Don Mahon, SC, said defendants of the application would continue to demonstrate that the prohibition of cannabis was irrational and inconsistent with the fundamental principles of the rule of law and legality. He said current legislative provisions owed their existence to outdated and unfounded convictions on the harmfulness and dependence-producing effects motivated, in part, by a defunct racist political agenda. More so, he added that the prohibition violated nine constitutional rights. Those rights included the right to inherent dignity, the right to freedom and security of persons, and the right not to be treated or punished in a cruel, inhuman or degrading way. Mahon said: “The couple accept that there is harm associated with the use of cannabis. But the mere existence of harm does not justify criminal prohibition. “If the possible harm justified criminalisation, then other vices, such as cigarettes, alcohol, sugar, caffeine, pornography and skydiving would also scream for similar blunt force prohibition, but they don’t.” Mahon said continued criminalisation ignored the harm associated with imprisonment or criminal records, the accepted benefits and how it was less harmful than other substances, such as alcohol or cigarettes, which were currently subjected to mere government  regulation. State prosecutor Tom Bokaba, SC, said the attempts by the couple to motivate for the change of legislation was hasty, as it precluded parliamentary processes already under way. The use of developed countries as examples of legalisation did not take into consideration poverty, crime and inequality, he said. Daily News