DURBAN - The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) is investigating six cases of alleged police brutality involving Glebelands residents. These cases, the directorate said in a recent interview with the Daily News, are alleged torture resulting in death, and alleged torture and assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm.
Moses Dlamini, Ipid spokesperson, said the manner in which the cases were brought against the police was not helping in bringing a speedy resolution of the matters. “Our investigators have at least on two occasions battled to obtain statements from victims of alleged police brutality because Ms Vanessa Burger is making our work difficult. In one instance, she brought a case and told us the complainant had since moved to Gauteng. “We communicated with her and she arranged for a meeting between our investigator and the alleged victim. When our investigator got to Gauteng the victim did not pitch up. He was called and his phone was off and Ms Burger herself was not interested in helping us trace the victim. Ipid spent resources on this case for nothing,” Dlamini said. In another instance, Burger allegedly took another alleged victim to the Mayville police station, but prevented the man giving a statement to the police. In the case 183/03/2016, which the Daily News has obtained, the police stated that the complainant (name withheld) alleged he was assaulted by the police, but refused to talk to the station commander. Instead, Burger did the talking and had refused to comply with the police. “That’s why the docket is not complete. It was opened on instruction by Lieutenant-Colonel Luthuli, the station commander, for the record and further investigation,” reads the statement. It is not clear when, where and how the assault happened and no progress has been made on the case. Dlamini said that in another case of assault by the police, the complainant could not identify the culprits. “A witness in this allegation also said he could not identify the officers involved in the alleged assault. In other cases the complainants could not be reached by our investigators. It is therefore irresponsible of an individual who is not a trained investigator to cast such aspersions on the operations of the law enforcement agency,” Dlamini said. Burger hit back at Dlamini, saying she was asked to locate a particular witness who had relocated to another province and was thus unreachable. “I merely do my best to assist victims who approach me for assistance. “Quite frankly, Mr Dlamini I have better things to do with my time. I also remind you that traumatised victims often do not trust your investigators, many of whom have police backgrounds, close police associates and similar attributes and prefer to communicate with third parties seen as independent. “While it is admitted that the Gauteng witness later became impossible to locate, this should not have precluded full investigation of the information already in the Ipid’s possession. “It is not my fault if the witness had no further interest in the matter,” Burger said. Daily News