Since the start of the third term, there have been ongoing issues with the programme. A group of businessmen and companies from across the province obtained the interim interdict against Education MEC Mthandeni Dlungwana after claims that the tender process for the programme was crippled by irregularities. They further claimed there were improper procedures followed in the awarding of new tenders. The interim order was granted on July 24 by the Pietermaritzburg High Court. However, the department has maintained that it was unaware of the order against it. Sihle Mlotshwa, department spokesperson, said this interim court order stated the department must keep the status quo. “This means we should continue with the previous service providers who do not have any service-level agreement with the department as the previous agreement ended on June 30. Termination letters to the previous service providers were served in advance,” said Mlotshwa. He said the interim order interdicted the entire tender process, notwithstanding that only a handful of bids had been taken on appeal by the applicants concerned. Children “This will result in thousands of schoolchildren going without their daily allocation of food in terms of the NSNP, and in fact is counter to the argument of the unsuccessful bidders who have obtained the interim court order,” he said. Speaking at a media briefing on Tuesday, Nomarashiya Caluza of the South African Democratic Teachers’ Union said the department must entrust the monies for the programme to the governing bodies at those schools. “Management of this lucrative business totalling R1.4 billion a year for profit-orientated providers must be transparent and monitored for the benefit of the children. The provision of nutrition was better handled by school governing bodies who had an opportunity to contribute to the local economic development through localisation of suppliers,” said Caluza. The feeding programme has been in operation for the past 15 years. In KwaZulu-Natal, the programme feeds 2.2million children at 5250 schools. Daily News