DURBAN - South Africa is a major key market and destination for human trafficking around the world. It is one of the world’s reloading points for human trafficking and a place where many women, men and children are treated as mere goods. This is according to Thina Thiart, the co-founder of 1000 Women Unite against Domestic Violence and Abuse. Thiart who spoke to the Daily News ahead before a conference on human trafficking and woman abuse in Durban on Friday. She said the human trafficking industry was a $32 billion (R424bn) industry. “At any time, about 2.5 million people around the world are caught up in the web of human trafficking, and 22% of these are children.” Thiart said the conference, their third annual event in Durban, aimed at educating the public about human trafficking and abuse against women and children. “We want to create a safe space for women to discuss and find solutions to domestic violence. This year, we focus on human trafficking and the increase of in trafficking of women and girls. “Usually these victims end up as sex slaves. We want to encourage them to speak out about rape and abuse. We would also like to mobilise resources to invest in shelters,” said Thiart. A recently released Statistics SA (Stats SA) report on domestic abuse and health revealed that women who had no education, or were very poor, were particularly vulnerable to abuse. “Through our initiative, we want to create an awareness about this pandemic and mobilise the legal profession and businesses to support the KwaZulu-Natal communities.” She said the latest South African Demographic Survey revealed alarming statistics for violence against women. For example, 21 percent % of women over the age of 18 reported they had experienced violence at the hands of a partner. “That is one in five women in SA and that is why 1000 Women Unite mobilizsed resources to provide R10 million over the past 14 years to small, grassroots women-led, community-based organisations,” said Thiart. She added that while the demographic and health survey, released by Statistics South SA, pointed to the fact that 14 per cent% of women in KZN above the age of 18 reported that they were subjected to domestic violence. Despite this being the lowest of all the country’s provinces, it was still shockingly high. Thiart said the statistics of a woman in South Africa being murdered by her intimate partner every sixth day, and a woman or girl being raped in the country every 25 seconds, underlined that domestic violence and abuse were rife. “These shocking statistics are not new to us because every time we read a newspaper or turn on the television we are made aware of the escalating level of abuse towards women and girls that takes place in our communities every day. “We are calling on all citizens to stand together and speak out,” said Thiart. Daily News