DURBAN - Closed circuit television footage of four men robbing cash-in-transit security guards just minuted before three of them were gunned down by police in  dramatic highway gun fight has emerged. The footage shows the robbers ambushing cash-in-transit guard at a petrol station in Hillcrest at 1.35 pm on Monday. There men are seeing holding a gun to the guards head while forcing him to remove the cash from the safe. Shortly after the incident,  three robbers were shot dead and a fourth seriously wounded after a shoot-out with police on the M13 near the Stapleton/New Germany Road intersection.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Police spokeswoman, Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said police were alerted to the robbery and given the description of the men's getaway vehicle, a blue VW Golf. "The vehicle with four occupants was spotted driving along the M13 Highway. Additional police officers were called in as backup and the thugs were cornered. The suspects opened fire at police and police officers retaliated, fatally wounding three suspects. The fourth man was seriously wounded during the shootout," Mbhele said. The injured suspect was taken to hospital where he remained under police guard. "Fortunately none of our police officers were injured during the shootout. Police seized four 9mm pistols and boxes of cash from the suspects getaway vehicle. The suspect will be charged for armed robbery, attempted murder, possession of unlicensed firearms and ammunition. He will appear in the Pinetown Magistrates’ Court soon. The suspects firearms will be subjected to ballistic testing to ascertain if they were used in the commission of any other crimes in the country," she said. KwaZulu-Natal Acting Provincial Commissioner, Major General Bheki Langa praised police for swiftly responding to the robbery and preventing the suspects from fleeing with the stolen cash. “I am glad that our police officers escaped the shooting unscathed and still managed to recover these illegal firearms and cash. These ruthless criminals have no respect for our laws or the people of this province. They are motivated by greed and have no regard for the lives that they ruin in the process,” he said.
 
Daily News