Nicholls said a lack of education was behind this, and although South Africa was celebrating 50 years of transplant excellence, the number of people willing to donate remained low, as indicated in a survey conducted by the foundation this year. It found that 71% of the country’s citizens were not willing to donate, yet 78% would accept organs. The country boasts many firsts in organ donation and transplant, with the first heart transplant 50 years ago, the first penis transplant two years ago, and the first HIV-positive donor to HIV-positive recipient kidney transplant. With these, Nicholls said, South Africa was regarded as a leader in the field of transplantation. Despite many cultural and religious differences, the Organ Donor Foundation remained optimistic that, with the right education and information, South Africans would come to understand the issues surrounding organ donation. “The main issue here is education. It all boils down to not having information. For example, some have the misconception that bodies get disfigured when performing transplants. If people were educated about this subject, their perception would definitely change,” Nicholls said. “Some say their beliefs do not allow them to donate, they can’t be buried with some parts missing or their ancestors won’t accept them with missing body parts,” she added. The kidney remained the most sought-after organ in the country. “The highest number of patients on the waiting list at this stage are for kidneys. Renal failure is affecting a lot of people, and government hospitals don’t have enough facilities to help patients, so 80% of them are sent home to die,” Nicholls said. Only 8000 of the 50000 requiring dialysis received it. “There’s an increase in lifestyle diseases like hypertension and diabetes, and that leads to renal failure, and more and more people end up needing kidneys.” With more than 60% of people awaiting organ and tissue donation being black people, white people were the ones who donated the most. “Organ and tissue donation is the best gift and legacy you can leave, so I would like to urge South African citizens to register to donate and save the lives of people on the waiting list.” Nicholls asked potential donors to register, either by calling the toll-free number 0800 22 66 11, or visiting the Organ Donor Foundation website at www.odf.org.za. Daily News