DURBAN - A mother accused of suffocating her 4-year-old daughter was granted permission by the Durban High Court to be sent for mental observation.
Ntombikayise Mdletshe, of KwaSanti outside Pinetown, is accused of giving her daughter, Nolwazi, a poisonous chemical for days. When the child became ill, she allegedly suffocated her in bed in October last year. The State alleges that Mdletshe deliberately gave the child poison to get back at the child’s father and to get his attention, but the plan backfired when the father wanted to take the sick child to the hospital. According to the indictment, when she realised the poison would be found in the child’s system, she suffocated Nolwazi while she slept. Mdletshe has pleaded not guilty to the charge of murder and on Monday brought an application before the court through her lawyer, Patrick Mkhumbuzi, to be sent for mental evaluation. Her trial was scheduled to begin last week, when the court first heard about the possible application and adjourned the matter. Mkhumbuzi told the court Mdletshe’s defence was that she was suffering from an extreme headache and had not received medical treatment in the days leading to the incident. She was allegedly hearing voices and strange sounds which she could not comprehend, and at times was in a state of mental obliviousness and apparently lost her physical and emotional senses. Mdletshe further alleged that she had been in an extreme state of depression because of ongoing physical abuse. In light of these allegations, Mkhumbuzi told the court it was obliged to send Mdletshe for mental observation. Senior State advocate Cheryl Naidu questioned why Mdletshe was now bringing the mental observation application when she had had months to make the request. She argued that the legitimacy of Mdletshe’s claim was suspicious Granting the application, Acting Judge Karthy Govender ordered that Mdletshe be admitted to Fort Napier Hospital in Pietermaritzburg and be examined by three psychiatrists and a clinical psychologist. Daily News