An altercation ensued between Gumede and Hoosen over what the latter called a “sloppy” amendment to the recommendation on one of the agenda items, the Women’s Day Celebration event next month. The supplementary agenda, which carried the item, had no recommendations. Later, during the course of the meeting, a page with no signatures was distributed to the councillors. Apparently, it is not accepted for agenda items to be unsigned. On receiving the addition to the agenda, Hoosen refreshed the house about Gumede’s introductory speech during the opening of the meeting where the latter had complimented Cape Town mayor Patricia De Lille on her professionalism. Respectful Gumede had said that on her recent visit to the Western Cape, Zille was professional and respectful. On seeing the unsigned amended agenda item, Hoosen took a jibe and said De Lille would not have allowed a “sloppy formatted” recommendation to be tabled before the Executive. Gumede interjected Hoosen and said: “Hey, you!” This derailed the meeting for some minutes as Hoosen retaliated by saying the single-paged amendment was “toilet paper”. That irked ANC councillors, including Gumede, leading to the latter refusing to recognise the DA councillors during the proceedings. For the DA to be recognised during the proceedings, its leader, Zwakele Mncwango, had to apologise for his colleague’s utterances, also reminding Gumede that the way she had addressed Hoosen was “unparliamentary”. “Chair (Gumede), the language my colleague had used was unparliamentary. “But she was provoked. Mayor, you have no respect for us as the opposition. Do some introspection,” Mncwango said. Title On the sidelines of the meeting, Hoosen said: “The mayor cannot think that her title gives her the right to conduct herself with disrespect. She is the mayor of the city, and her conduct at meetings and public events leaves much to be desired. “You cannot claim to be the spokesperson for women’s rights, yet in the boardroom you want to use any opportunity to degrade women. “Today is the second last day of Women’s Month, and the manner in which I was addressed leaves me embarrassed to have Councillor Gumede as the woman leading other women in this city. “If women in power cannot use that power to build better relationships among women and respect another women, then serious introspection needs to be done,” Hoosen said. When contacted for comment, Mncwango said two wrongs did not make a right. “The mayor’s language was wrong, and Sharon retaliated. As a leader I had to do the right thing which is to apologise, even though she was provoked. I told the mayor to do an introspection, rightfully so,” he said. Daily News