He said this would be similar to how it lost metros in Nelson Mandela Bay, Tshwane and Johannesburg during last year’s local government elections. Cele was addressing a cadre’s forum at a packed Gamalakhe College in the Lower South Coast region on Monday night. The forum had followed a meeting of the ANC’s National Working Committee (NWC), Provincial Executive Committee (PEC) and Regional Executive Committee (REC) at the San Lameer Resort Hotel in Margate after the Lower South Coast Region was stripped of its powers recently. This came after suspicions that the region was backing Cyril Ramaphosa for the party’s presidency in December. Referring to the ongoing ANC KZN Provincial Executive Committee case in the Pietermaritzburg High Court, Cele said no matter what happened after the case, if the ANC could not provide leadership, party members should stand up and demand leadership. “The leadership of the ANC should say to courts ‘don’t meddle in our affairs’ and there’s one way of telling the courts not to get into our affairs and that’s by doing the right thing,” Cele said. He said the NEC had made the wrong decision and that this was the reason behind the ongoing court case over the legitimacy of the KZN PEC. “We spent an entire day in a meeting and, at the end of it, we as the NEC made the wrong decision. “The ANC NEC must eat humble pie and apologise,” Cele said. Despite saying he was not supporting anyone and would only reveal his support when nominations were made official, Cele supported the tradition of the deputy president succeeding the incumbent, clearly backing Ramaphosa. “I have one problem, that the ANC has customs and traditions and one of those  is that since 1967 the deputy president of the party always succeeds the president. I’m not supporting anybody, I’m looking at the procedures,” Cele said. He said although there were squabbles around the succession debate in the party’s Polokwane conference in 2007, members had disagreed with breaking tradition and demanded that Jacob Zuma,then deputy president of the party, should take over in keeping with tradition. “I don’t know why this tradition must be disturbed now. Nobody is saying women are not ready to lead, but don’t change the traditions,” Cele said. In a stinging rebuke of the Guptas and President Jacob Zuma, Cele said the Gupta family should go back to where it came from - and take its friends with it. “I am from Umzumbe, but I would never take the government’s money and build a palace for myself in Umzumbe. “It can’t be that the people of South Africa uplift me and say they love this party and I then go and build in Umzumbe with the government’s money,” Cele said. He said party members needed to teach each other not to do the wrong things and to accept punishment when they had done wrong. He said the party should not allow the Guptas to capture it. “Everywhere you turn there are the Guptas...  There are ministers whose CVs are approved by the Guptas before they’re hired. These Guptas must leave us alone and go back where they come from.” Daily News