According to Dr Roseanne Hardy, the mother became vulnerable to stress and dysfunctional behaviour because of a head injury she suffered after a car accident in 2001. Hardy said the mother responded differently to various situations. “In a chaotic situation, she would mostly lash out and become aggressive,” Hardy said. “In my office, where there is no noise, she behaved appropriately.” Three-year-old Baby X was allegedly killed by her mother, 31, and grandmother, 51, in their Chatsworth home in 2014. Both women have pleaded not guilty to the murder, as well as not guilty to charges of child abuse, assault and sexual assault against the little girl’s two older siblings who are now nine and 12. The grandmother also pleaded not guilty to sexually assaulting and raping the little girl who died of blunt head trauma. Both the women and the little girl cannot be named to protect the identity of the little girl’s surviving siblings. Yesterday, Hardy said during the assessment, the mother showed significant behavioural problems and changes. She sometimes presented herself well and normally, and then she would give concrete responses. Hardy described the mother as immature. The neuro-psychologist, called by the defence, testified that the trauma of being raped at the age of six, allegedly by a neighbour and allegedly by her father, as well as her brain injury, contributed to the mother’s poor judgment and inability to control herself. But senior State advocate Cheryl Naidu said she had difficulty in incorporating Hardy’s findings against the evidence before the court and the behaviour which the mother had displayed when she responded to questions. Stressful Naidu argued that someone who had never been to court before or testified would have found the situation stressful and would have displayed a level of dysfunctionality, “but this was not the case with her (the mother)”. She said the problem she had with Hardy’s conclusions was that one could not be selectively dysfunctional. Naidu quoted the mother’s response when asked how she felt about the fact that the police had taken Baby X away from her when she lived on the street and placed the little girl in a home. “I don’t feel anything because I am here arrested and there is nothing I could do. “They made that decision for me because I am arrested. If it was your child, what would you do?” the mother had testified. Naidu argued that the mother’s response was normal, but Hardy disagreed, saying the mother commented by not looking at a broader picture, that the child was going to be protected and away from the streets. Hardy said Naidu was expressing a level of maturity that the mother did not have. She said she was not basing her opinion on the evidence before the court, but on her assessment. “I was not given the court transcripts and I was not in court, but my opinion is that her response seemed strange. “My job is to explain how I conducted the assessment and explain my findings,” Hardy said. The case continues. Daily News