eThekwini is one of the biggest metros in South Africa with a massive R41.6 billion annual budget for the 2016/2017 financial year. The DA claimed Gumede had consistently exposed her inability to effectively lead the municipality and grow the metro’s economy since taking office a year ago. Zwakhele Mncwango, DA provincial leader, said the city managed to stumble from one controversy to another. “The city is in a state of collapse. She (Gumede) is unable to compose herself when negative comments about her are reflected. The mayor refrains from debate at Executive Committee (exco meetings) and prevents  opposition parties from debating controversial current affairs. “The purchase of Casspirs, dogs, dog handlers, the exodus of senior officials, service delivery protest marches, and failing court cases are all under her leadership,” Mncwango said. However Shikaar Bugwandeen, of the Reservoir Hills Ratepayers’ and Residents’ Association, felt the mayor needed a bit more time before she could be judged fairly. Resolving issues around the informal settlements and crime were areas where Gumede could leave a lasting legacy, Bugwandeen said. “She can make a difference, but she has to be committed, selfless and dedicated to achieve the vision of a caring, prosperous and safe municipality. “I think service delivery overall still needs to improve. It needs to be regular, dependable and efficient and not wasteful of ratepayer’s money. Corruption and incompetent senior personnel are bringing down her level of performance. “The mayor needs to listen more to messages from the ground, which would assist her to make informed decisions,” he said. Centenary Park Ratepayers’ Association chairperson Valencia Pillay said they found themselves subjected to crime daily in Phoenix. “The problem arising from inadequate housing and job creation is an issue not being addressed by Gumede. It’s a clear indication that good governance has lost its direction. We have become a city under siege,” Pillay said. Stonebridge Civic and Ratepayers’ Association chairperson Robert Beharilal said Gumede needed to reduce lavish spending and use the funds for job creation. Beharilal said cadre deployment should not be allowed and the best qualified person appointed to senior positions. Mncwango said he could not trust the mayor. “She lied about many issues. One of the lies backfired when she said there was a strong case against Parks, Recreation and Cemeteries head Thembinkosi Ngcobo when she suspended him. “The city lifted his suspension after he took them to court. The question is, should ratepayers be liable for money wasted on legal costs from the Ngcobo case?” The withholding of crucial investigative reports at an executive level, said Mncwango, and Gumede micro-managing the administration, was problematic. However, Durban Mayoral spokesperson Mthunzi Gumede said a lot had been achieved under her leadership that was not made public. On Facebook ratepayers called for a vote to have her removed while some called on her to resign. Daily News