DURBAN - A special task team set up to probe killings at Glebelands Hostel arrested a suspect for the murder of Sbongile Mtshali (52) who was gunned down in July. Police said members of the Organised Crime Task Team, Public Order Police, Metro Police conducted an intelligence driven operation at Glebelands and arrested a 31-year-old man believed to be behind the murder . Police spokesman, Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane said it is alleged that on 26 July 2017 at 8pm, Mtshali was in the room where she was running a tuck-shop, when she was approached by two unknown men pretending to be customers. The men opened fire and killed Mtshali before fleeing the scene on foot. She was shot in the head and chest and was declared dead on the scene. The man arrested will be profiled to check if he is linked to other crimes committed at Glebelands Hostel. He will appear in the uMlazi Magistrate’s Court once he is charged.
 
“Meanwhile, at 12pm (on Wednesday) police deployed at Glebelands hostel arrested a 36-year-old man for possession of an unlicensed firearm at Glebelands. Police officers were conducting crime prevention duties at the hostel and following up on a murder where a 38-year-old man was shot and killed at the hostel on Tuesday night. Police stopped a taxi that was at the Glebelands hostel and searched the occupants. Upon searching the occupants one of the passengers was found in possession of an unlicensed pistol. The recovered firearm will be subjected to a ballistics analysis to ascertain if it was used in murders committed at hostel or any other case in the country,” Zwane said. Major General Bheki Langa, KwaZulu-Natal Acting Provincial Commissioner, praised the team for the arrests. “Community partnership is vital in maintaining peace and stability at the hostel. We are appealing to residence to work together with the police by reporting any criminal activities. We also applaud the efforts the uMlazi Station Commander for her continued attempts to reach out to residents at the Glebelands hostel,” Langa said. Daily News