The witness, who has relocated to another province, cannot be named. His friend, Sipho Ndovela, was gunned down at the uMlazi Magistrate’s Court. Ndovela was a witness to a murder at the uMlazi hostel, and was expected to testify at the trial. Acting Judge F Abraham ruled in favour of the State’s application earlier this week for some of the State witnesses to testify in-camera, before a closed court, because of safety concerns. On Wednesday, the witness told the court he was feeling bad about the brutality used in his friend’s murder and feared for his own life. “I was scared that the same thing was going to happen to me,” he said. He became emotional when shown a picture of his friend lying in a pool of blood. He told the court he had accompanied Ndovela to the uMlazi Magistrate’s Court. Mxoleleni Hopeson Bhani, 23, stands accused of murder. The witness had pointed him out in an identity parade. The State alleges that before the incident, Bhani and his two accomplices, whom he was seen with in court on the day of the incident, conspired to kill Ndovela. The accomplices were initially arrested, but charges were later withdrawn because of the lack of evidence. The witness told the court he clearly remembered seeing Bhani and two other men, and claimed Bhani shot Ndovela. The witness said he saw one person shooting and heard the sound of a gun cocking on his left. He said the man was of medium height and black. “I saw what they were wearing, too, and I could identify the shooter because I managed to see his face when he turned to face me. I saw his face,” he said referring to Bhani. Description Defence senior counsel Winston Maqutu, however, questioned why the witness had not given the police the description of the accused in the statement he made to the police, and only mentioned it in his evidence in court. The witness said he was not asked by the police and had answered what he was asked. Maqutu said Bhani, also a resident at Glebelands Hostel, was going to tell the court that he was never at the scene or in the area of uMlazi when the shooting happened. “He will say that he was busy raising funds for his education somewhere. You’re mistaken and untruthful. You are now blaming the police for you did not include the identity of the shooter in your statement. Police are not supposed to teach people what to say, instead they must be given information voluntarily,” he said. The trial continues. Daily News