Johannesburg - Deputy Minister of Higher Education and Training Mduduzi Manana has allegedly confessed to slapping a woman during an altercation outside a club in Johannesburg. The incident reportedly happened at Cubana in Fourways in the early hours of Sunday morning and followed a spat over the ANC succession debate and the woman, Mandisa Duma, allegedly calling Manana gay. According to a Twitter post by Tumi Sole, a witness reports seeing Manana beat the woman up while bouncers and the club manager stood there and watched. "In the early hours of this morning [Sunday], I witnessed Deputy Higher Education Minister Manana go ape and beat up a defenceless woman coz she allegedly called him gay," the captioned post read. "What hurt most is that people - including the bouncers and manager at Cubana Fourways - stood there and watch. A friend and I then intervened and instead of being sorry - his response was 'who are you and what do you think you can do to me'"?    Sole then posted a sound clip purportedly of Manana and Duma's brother following the incident. In the clip, Duma's brother, Phesheya, confronts Manana over the incident and after a heated discussion, Manana eventually admits to slapping Duma. "My brother, when she swore at me and called me gay, I slapped her," Manana admits in isiZulu. The angry brother then questions how Manana could hit a woman, especially during Women's month, and as a deputy minister.    The woman's sister, Luwanda Duma, also posted pictures of her battered sister following the assault.    Police ministry spokesperson Vuyo Mhaga confirmed that a case of assault was opened at the Douglasdale Police Station. "Last night, we finally tracked down at which police station the case was opened and we found out that it was at Douglasdale... and we can confirm that a case was opened," Mhaga said. Mhaga added that the case would be treated as any other ordinary case and that the statement would be taken from the deputy minister. The African National Congress (ANCWL), meanwhile, has since issued a statement, saying it had noted the disturbing reports around the alleged inident. "The ANCWL condemns violence against women and perpetrators must face the might of the law. "Whilst we take into account the principles of innocent until proven guilty, the ANCWL is resolute in supporting the victims of violence and wishes to reiterate this position," the movement said. IOL