The warning by EFF national spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi came after Shaik ­suddenly emerged from his “terminal illness” and launched a scathing attack on Julius Malema. This was after the EFF leader accused Indian businesses of exploitation and monopolising the KwaZulu-Natal economy. “We will never keep quiet, particularly in the face of hypocritical criticism coming from convicted criminals like Schabir Shaik, who in order to avoid serving his sentence, faked terminal illness. “We advise Shaik to focus on his fake illness before we have to call for his parole to be reviewed,” Ndlozi said. “It is precisely people like him (Shaik), who instead of confronting the racism African people suffer in the Indian community, they divert attention by sounding false alarms that the EFF is inciting violence.” Ndlozi was reacting after Shaik was quoted in a report accusing Malema of playing on racial tensions. Shaik’s outburst caused a stir on social media, with some hailing Malema for raising the convicted businessman from his illness. Meanwhile, the DA on Monday called for Shaik’s parole to be reviewed in court. Shaik was convicted of fraud and corruption in 2005, but served only two years of his 15-year prison sentence when he was released on medical parole in 2009. The DA’s James Selfe said he would write to Correctional Services Minister Michael ­Masutha to ask him to take Shaik’s parole to court to determine if he should return to prison to serve the remainder of his prison sentence. “His parole conditions should be altered in such a way that the South African public no longer have to be fed the lie that he is still terminally ill eight years after his release.” Selfe also warned Masutha of legal action if he did not take Shaik’s parole to court. “Should the minister fail or refuse to do this, the DA will consider its options, including, even at this stage, reviewing the rationality of the decision to grant Mr Shaik medical parole (in the first place).” Last week, Masutha said in a written reply that Shaik’s condition was still viewed as terminal, and was last reviewed in April, 2015. His house arrest was relaxed to allow him to attend his son’s school functions, work and ­attend sport once a week, the minister said.“If he has to travel outside the province, then he has to apply for leave of absence, like any other offender,” Masutha added. Selfe said Shaik was still alive and well, so much so that his parole conditions allowed him to play one afternoon of sport. “He has not died ‘a consolatory and dignified death’ eight years after his release and, frankly, he is so well that his parole conditions allow him to travel to other provinces, with permission,” he said. Selfe added it was clear that Shaik was never “in the final phase of any terminal disease or condition”. Daily News