Durban - While one of the men wounded in a shoot-out between police and robbers remains in a critical condition, the car used by the fleeing gang has been linked to a prominent Durban family.
On Monday, a 29-year-old bystander and his 23-year-old friend were caught in the gunfire that broke out just minutes after nine men, dressed as construction workers, attacked cash guards at a Springfield shopping centre. The friends were believed to be on lunch when they were shot. A spokesperson for the hospital where the men were admitted, confirmed the 29-year-old suffered major vascular and abdominal injuries. He was taken to theatre last night. He would still have to undergo orthopaedic and general surgery. “He is currently in the intensive care unit in a critical condition, but is stable,” the spokesperson said. The younger man is in a stable condition. He was reportedly shot in the arm. Investigations after the shoot-out that left six gang members dead, revealed that the silver Mercedes-Benz used by the suspects was hijacked from a well-known Durban businessman on Saturday. The Overport resident, who declined to be named, said the hijacking ordeal in Sherwood was over in 20 seconds. “I had just arrived when three men got out of their car and walked up to me. They took my wallet, cellphone and car. They did not produce any guns,” he said. This was the third attack on the family. Last month, the man was hijacked near his house. He was accosted by balaclava-clad men who demanded that he alight from his Mercedes-Benz. The robbers drove off with the car and it was traced to Lindelani, near KwaMashu, where police were involved in a shoot-out with the hijackers. The car was recovered, along with the suspected getaway cars used by the men. Just days before, the family lost a son, who was killed during a house robbery. Armed men stormed the house and the man was shot in the abdomen as he tried to intervene. He died later in hospital. Captain Nqobile Gwala, police spokesperson, said the current matter had been taken over by the Hawks. She added that two men were yet to appear in court. They face charges of armed robbery, attempted murder, and possession of suspected stolen property, unlicensed firearms and ammunition. Daily News