But the trial of businessman and former SA Air Force (SAAF) officer and uMkhonto weSizwe veteran Joel Mbuso Mohoasa did not start as planned in the Durban High Court, because the accused has died. It is understood that he died in a car crash last week and was buried on Saturday. “All we can confirm is that the accused in this matter is deceased and the matter will not continue,” said advocate Moipone Noko, the provincial director of public prosecutions, on Monday. Another source confirmed Mohoasa’s death certificate reported he had died of “unnatural causes”. Mohoasa intended on pleading not guilty to killing his wife, Lesego, a switchboard operator at the SAAF base in Durban, at their home on August 30, 2015. He was also going to face charges for the unlawful possession of explosives. At his bail application in the Durban Magistrate’s Court, the State had alleged that after an argument about money, Mohoasa had pulled the pin on a hand grenade and tossed it at the feet of his wife, injuring her. She died soon after in nearby Netcare Kingsway Hospital. However, his lawyer, 
advocate Paul Jorgensen, had told the court they would prove during the trial that “Joel did not pull the pin”. Fireball Jorgensen had painted a picture of a marriage marred by domestic violence, claiming that it was Mohoasa’s wife who was the aggressive partner and that she had wanted to turn him into a “human fireball”. He claimed that she had poured brake fluid over him and attempted to set him alight three months earlier. Jorgensen had pointed to disfiguring marks on his client’s face from the attack. She had allegedly stabbed him with a carving knife. Mohoasa had laid charges of attempted murder against his wife, but later withdrew them, telling the investigating officer they had worked through their problems with a counsellor. The court was further told that Mohoasa had taken out an interim protection order against his wife, preventing her from verbally or physically abusing him, intimidating him or entering his business. In the protection order, handed in as evidence during a bail hearing, Mohoasa had written that she had threatened to kill him. The investigating officer, Constable Dumisani Gumede, had testified in opposition to bail, that Tsepo Malete, Lesego’s cousin, said in a statement how he had overheard Mohoasa threatening his wife with a hand grenade. Mohoasa then allegedly entered the kitchen carrying a grenade in each hand, pulled the pin on one grenade and threw it at his wife. Their two minor children were also in the house at the time and were unharmed. Lesego was buried in her home town of Bloemfontein two weeks later. President Jacob Zuma sent a message of condolence. Daily News