The musician was in July convicted of rape after a trial that lasted four years and it is now up to the Roodepoort Magistrate’s Court to decide on an appropriate sentence. However, Ndlovu is not the only star whose sex scandals have been laid bare to the nation. Other stars had their fair share of media attention that revolved around their “sexcapades”:  Jacob “Baby Jake” Matlala The former world boxing champion was one of South Africa’s greatest sportsmen. Before he died from a lung problem in 2014, he held four world titles and two South African boxing titles. But Matlala, who was affectionately known as the Little Big Man because he was the shortest world champion in history, was no stranger to controversy. In 1999, he was accused of raping a gospel singer after taking her to his townhouse in Ridgeway. His accuser told the Johannesburg Magistrate’s Court during his case in 2000 that she had met Matlala a day before the alleged rape and had requested R200 for transport. Matlala had allegedly suggested they meet the following day so he could show her his empty townhouse in Ridgeway, and raped her. However, Matlala said in court papers the sex had been consensual and that he had agreed to pay the woman after she threatened to lay a rape charge.  Benedict Vilakazi The former Orlando Pirates and Bafana Bafana midfielder was accused of raping a 15-year-old girl in her parents’ bathroom in 2005. She testified during the case in the Johannesburg Magistrate’s Court that after raping her, he had just walked out of the door. Vilakazi admitted he had sex with her but said it was consensual and that he had been led to believe the girl was 17.  Makhaya Ntini The South African cricketer was initially found guilty in 1999 of raping a 22-year-old housekeeper at the Buffalo Park cricket grounds in December 1998 and was sentenced to six years’ imprisonment. However, he later appealed and the Grahamstown High Court overturned the rape conviction, leaving him free to continue his national and international cricket career. The court said the State had failed to prove the rape beyond reasonable doubt and that the complainant’s evidence about the alleged rape had been “contradictory and inconsistent”, and was without corroboration.  Mbuso Mandela Former President Nelson Mandela’s grandson was accused of raping a 15-year-old at Mamma’s Shebeen Restaurant and Bar in Greenside in August 2015. He said the sex between them was consensual and that the alleged victim was not 15 but 16. At the time of the case, prosecutor Nadine Nel told the court that new information needed to be probed by investigators, and that the complainant needed time to consult a psychiatrist to ensure she could handle the strain of a traumatic rape trial. The rape charge against Mbuso was later provisionally withdrawn.  Sechaba Pali Gospel artist Sechaba Pali was found guilty of raping a 15-year-old in 2012. In the teenager’s affidavit that was read in court, she said that Pali - who was friends with her sister - had arrived at her Welkom home and invited her to travel with him to Tweefontein. She said that she arrived there drunk after he plied her with alcohol. She said she fell into a deep sleep, waking up in the middle of the night with the gospel star on top of her. When she asked what he was doing, he told her not to worry and promised not to ejaculate inside her. However, Pali said the girl had told him that she was 17, and that they were actually in a consensual relationship. Pali was found guilty of statutory rape and given a five-year suspended sentence. The Star