DURBAN - The Moerane Commission of Inquiry investigating political killings in KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) got under way on Wednesday. The commission was appointed by Premier Willies Mchunu to investigate the ongoing killings around the province. Umlazi’s Glebelands hostel was part of the focus of the commission following testimonies from different witnesses that the hostel was a reservoir for hitmen. Previous testimony was also that those who recruited the hitmen were no longer in control of them, and that these killers have made their way to other parts of the province. Advocate Bheki Manyathi, evidence leader for the commission, put to Amar Maharaj, the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) ethics manager, that Ipid’s office in KZN was dysfunctional, Maharaj testified to the affirmative. “I have no intention of causing any harm to Ipid, but will testify on what is in the public interest. I want to start with the testimony of Vanessa Burger. It is true that the Ipid office in the province is dysfunctional. Cases that were marked in the Public Protector’s report have not been dealt with. Some cases referred to Ipid are recorded as assault and not torture,” Maharaj said. He testified that some cases of “assault” would be listed as “completed”, closed and archived without any further action. Maharaj said in some cases he would search for records which did not exist in the archives of Ipid. “The officers operate under fractured structure and senior managers force staff to close up to 30 to 40 cases a month. There’s a big rush to achieve performance statistics hence the closure of cases en masse. Because of these closed cases people get performance bonuses. With regards to the torture cases, there are numerous cases of this nature. I looked at all the torture cases in this province and remember, I said Ipid does not report cases as torture. Investigators we met in 2014 (in KZN) indicated that the people who are in charge want investigators to complete cases. They also complained that Ipid is reactive and does not play a proactive role in dealing with torture cases. Managers chase for files to go from active to completed without proper investigation. They also complained that they are placed in a moral dilemma especially when the families of the victims ask when the cases go to court,” Maharaj said. He further testified that after postmortem results are not collected. Today’s session of the commission continues. Meanwhile, Brigadier Bongi Ntuli, station commander of uMlazi police, her members and uMlazi CPF Executive visited Glebelands Hostel on Tuesday in an effort to mend fences with the community which has seen more than 90 people killed, where more than 60 people were killed over a two-year period. Brigadier Ntuli went door to door, in Glebelands visiting those who were home on Tuesday and addressed their personal concerns and encouraged them to to work with the police to reduce crime. They aimed to bring awareness to the community with regards to women and children abuse, domestic violence and the crime stop number 08600 10111. The community was encouraged to use the number to help restore peace to Glebelands by helping police stop crime. “Being Women’s Month we need to support and protect our women by ensuring they have avenues and knowledge on how to stop or prevent abuse,” said Brigadier Ntuli. “Umlazi police are here to assist and to eradicate crime at the hostel.  I feel it is important to come to your doors and to let you know that we care. Together we can make a difference but alone we cannot do as much as we can together. I appeal to you as part of the community to help us restore peace and stability at Glebelands,” she continued. The community appeared to be delighted to see the station commander at Glebelands Hostel and they described it as a ‘light of hope’ to decrease crime. Major General Bheki Langa, KwaZulu-Natal Acting Provincial Commissioner, praised Brigadier Ntuli and her members for visiting Glebelands. He said: “We also hope that this visit will yield good results as the people are now aware of the crime stop number they can use to report any form of crime with no fear of being known”. Daily News