There has been a long-standing battle between tenants and First Metro Housing, a non-profit organisation that is involved in the development and management of social housing on behalf of the eThekwini Municipality. For years, tenants have claimed they were promised ownership of their units after a certain time. The complex was built in 2001 for those with incomes of up to R3 500 a month. Speaking to the Daily News yesterday outside the Durban High Court, an elderly resident said if she was evicted, she would have nowhere to go. “My family kicked me out of my home. I have been a resident at Howell Road since 2004. If they come and kick us out like the last time, I will have no other place to go to. The only other option I have is the grave and I do not think the grave wants me just yet,” she said. The 61-year old woman declined to be named because she believed those speaking to the media would be targeted by First Metro. Last year, violence erupted at the complex when residents refused to move out of the way for the Red Ants, a privately owned unit often used by the government and private property owners to evict residents. After a stand-off between police and irate residents, pepper spray was used to disperse the crowd and residents were shot at with rubber bullets. A few days later, residents were allowed to move back in. A similar incident took place in 2014. The residents claimed they were told they would own the two-bedroom units after paying rent for five years. In April 2014, they decided unanimously to stop paying rent. Residents went to the Durban High Court yesterday in a bid to stop the evictions and obtain title deeds to their homes. They had blocked off Margaret Mncadi Avenue (Victoria Embankment), the road outside the court, holding placards and protesting. Popo Zungu, the Howell Road Residents’ Committee chairperson, said in court they were advised to take the matter to the Durban Regional Court before presenting grievances at the High Court. “We will gather summonses from affected residents and hand them to our lawyer,” he said.