Durban -  “We want houses” “We want land” “How can I be evicted when I’m the owner?” These were some of the slogans chanted by residents living in and around Durban during the month of August. The residents of Bonela and Mariannridge were faced with land invasions while the residents from Sydenham were evicted. Residents protested against land invasions and evictions, which soon turned violent when none of them were getting what they were demanding. Bonela For months, informal shack dwellers were trying to build informal houses along the green belt of land stretching from Wiggins Road into Blinkbonnie Road in Bonela. When the city tried to remove them, violent clashes ensued, which resulted in shots being fired, residents injured, homes being torched and residents fleeing. However, Abahlali baseMjondolo had obtained an interim interdict which prevents the municipality from demolishing the shacks and allows that the shacks destroyed would have to be rebuilt. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Residents protesting against land invasions and evictions as well as shack dwellers demanding land. Mariannridge Residents demaded that Zandile Gumede, mayor of eThekwini address them about the housing development issue in the area. According to the residents, they are living in overcrowded municipal owned flats. Three generations have been living in the same flats and they have complained about the lack of space for their families. In 2016 they were told that plots were being cleared for 500 units but nothing came of it. Now the land that was cleared was invaded by people who are not from the area. Sydenham Residents of the Howell Estate, a low-cost housing establishment by First Metro Housing, had burnt tyres and rubble to prevent the police and Red Ants from entering the estate to evict them. 150 residents were set to be evicted from the houses they claim they own. But, they were evicted regardless, including an 88-year-old woman. The former residents are without shelter and have been living in a nearby park ever since. Daily News