Speaking at Curries Fountain, Malema said Indian people who owned shops did not pay their black workers well. He could face the Equality Court to answer for the comments. Addressing the crowd, Malema said: “They (Indians) give them food parcels. We want a minimum wage even in the Indian shops. When you are black and you have a domestic worker, pay them the minimum wage and treat them properly. If you are an Indian and you have a shop, treat our people properly.” Ashin Singh, of the South African Minority Rights Equality Movement (Samrem), said Malema’s comments were prohibited by the Hate Speech Bill. “It is a criminal offence to generalise like this and make such racist statements that promote hatred and create further tensions,” said Singh. “Let them bring it on,” responded Godrich Gardee, the EFF’s secretary-general. “We did not say all Indians (are bad), there are some that are rotten potatoes, who abuse their workers, and if the shoe fits Those who treat their employees well have nothing to worry about.” He said those complaining were cowards who did not want to engage on issues in public discussions. “When we say that Afrikaners are racist, no one says we are being divisive and no one has taken us to court for that. When we say (President Jacob) Zuma is a thief and a constitutional delinquent, no one is accusing us of being anti-black. “Now that we are speaking about Indians in Natal, people are complaining. Those complaining should produce a payslip of how much they pay their gardener and domestic worker,” Gardee said. This is not the first time that Samrem has taken Malema to task. In 2011, it laid a charge of crimen injuria against him. The Minority Front (MF) is taking up the matter with the South African Human Rights Commission. The party’s Jonathan Annipen said it would seek relief  from the Indian Embassy in South Africa if necessary. “Malema is trying very hard to frustrate the democratic gains of social cohesion and nation-building, and is deepening the divide between blacks and Indians,” said Annipen. He said when Indians arrived in South Africa as indentured labourers, they co-existed with black people and made a contribution to the economy. “The MF emphatically rubbishes these insults and will defend the interests of Indian and other minorities. Indian people are not the enemies of black folk. Historically, we have fought side by side with black folk for equal opportunities and human dignity. “We will take every measure to protect the integrity, dignity and heritage of the Indian community,” he said. Daily News