HOPE carried Catherine McGowan, the wife of South African, Stephen McGowan, who was held captive in Mali for almost six years by Al-Qaeda, through the ordeal, she said on Thursday. "It's been a very long time and I'm just so pleased that this day has come. It is unfortunate that Steve's mum isn't here. We spoke about hope. It is a funny thing - you are hopeful and then you get bad news. You are despondent, but yet you still have hope. You get back on track again, believing that he is gonna get back home, but then he doesn't. But you still keep believing," she said addressing a media briefing organised by the South African government. "It is incredible. In terms of seeing Steve again, you play all these things around in your head -- how it's going to be, what you going to say, where it's going to be. I've played all the scenarios in my mind and this is not how it happened." Stephen was released on July 25, and was reunited with his family in Johannesburg on Sunday. Catherine shared the first moment she saw her husband at their Sandton home on Sunday, after his release from Mali. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. "So he came out, looks at me and said your hair is growing, and I said actually your hair is longer than mine now," said Catherine, laughing. Stephen's father, Malcolm McGowan said his son felt as strong as before. "It was a big surprise when Stephen walked through the door for the first meeting [after the release], but when I gave him a hug, he felt as sound and as strong as before. So he was well treated up there. Obviously it the joy of the miracle that had happened. We can't describe it  I guess ... unless you have travelled the road, you really don't know what it's like," he said. "We tried to keep my wife [Stephen's mother] going by continually saying he is coming home but it didn't quite work out the way we wanted. So we have had to say to Stephen a lot of water has passed under the bridge but you are strong, you got to get up and just carry on with your life and you make the best of what it is. Every experience in life has benefits." Beverly McGowan passed away in May. Malcolm McGowan thanked all organisations and individuals who have been fighting for Stephen's release. "There was tremendous work done behind the scenes, and government assisted from the beginning. I really need to thank everyone for their prayers, through every race and creed. People around the world have really prayed for my son. The NGOs have helped us, and we have met many people along the road. There are some fine, very good people out there and I don't wish for this to happen to anyone else. Thank you all for the compassion that we have had from everyone involved," he said. International Relations Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane said Stephen was getting all the necessary support. State Security Minister David Mahlobo said it was a very agonising period when President Jacob Zuma delegated the ministers of state security and international relations to assist the family. Mahlobo however emphasised that the South African government did not, and will not, pay ransom. "Our foreign policy is very clear. We don't actually get into payment of ransoms. At the same time, through our engagement from government to government and other bodies that are there, we were able to release him without any conditions. There are no conditions to the family, Mr McGowan can confirm. The most important thing is the good news that through our shrewd engagement, supported by the African Union and other structures - Stephen is at home, reunited with his family," said Mahlobo. "We should be able to allow him space to do a reflection so that he can be able to proceed with his life. Almost six years lost. It's a long time. The most important thing is that he is here. There are no conditions." McGowan was travelling through Mali on a trans-Africa journey when he was one of three tourists abducted by gunmen from a restaurant in Timbuktu. The attackers shot and killed a fourth tourist, a German, when he refused to climb into their truck. African News Agency (ANA)