In Durban for the prestigious advertising industry’s Loeries Creative Week, and Saturday and Sunday’s awards evenings, they have been telling Carol Coetzee, the chief executive of the KZN Film Commission, that they are eyeing local locations for future commercials. “They are tired of some of their usual locations in Cape Town and Johannesburg, and we are picking up on increased interest from the number of queries we have been receiving,” she said. The KZN Film Commission hosted a dinner for the executives on Wednesday, giving them the chance to network with local film-makers. “International journalists here for the Loeries were also raving about our beautiful city and the variety of locations,” Coetzee said. This is the third year that the Loeries has been held in Durban. “This is in terms of the original contract between the city and the province, and the city remains a viable option in our consideration for renewal in the next few years,” said Andrew Human, the Loeries organisation’s chief executive, on Thursday. “We need to finalise things with the the city and the province very soon,” he said, adding that the organisation would be “looking at securing sponsorship for the host city” in the future. Last year’s economic impact on the region was a record R170million (an increase of 44%), and Coetzee said at last week’s media briefing that the figure represented a “phenomenal” return for the R8m investment that the city and the province contributed between them. Most of this week has been devoted to judging the 3000 entries in 17 categories for the Loeries awards. Delegates from around South Africa, across Africa and the Middle East started to arrive in Durban on Thursday. The number of entries was slightly up on last year, while the number of entries from South Africa was slightly down, which was a sign of the economic times, Human said. The Loeries placed a big focus on the young creatives in the industry, and the top students in the country had been invited to showcase their ideas at the Durban ICC on Friday, Human said. Two high school pupils will also receive scholarships from the Loeries. While the name of one, Mali Khuzwayo, was announced last week, the name of the other is under wraps until after tomorrow night’s awards ceremony. Daily News