The corporation said its crash investigating team would work with other law enforcement authorities to investigate and establish the cause of the crash. “We urge people not to speculate but to allow the investigating team to execute their responsibility without fear, prejudice and bias,” the statement said. Khoza, a member of the basic education portfolio committee, was in a vehicle with colleagues to conduct oversight visits to various schools in the Western Cape when their car overturned near Paarl. The ANC’s Nomalungelo Gina, the DA’s Ian Ollis and the UDM’s Cynthia Majeke sustained injuries and were rushed to the Paarl Medi-Clinic for treatment. As the condolences were pouring in, President Jacob Zuma sent his message to the Khoza family: “We are deeply shocked and saddened by the untimely passing of Mr Khoza, who tragically lost his life while providing service to our people and was committed to improving the quality of education in South Africa. “We wish to extend our deepest condolences to his family. May his soul rest in peace,” Zuma said. He also wished the injured MPs a speedy recovery. Parliament also sent condolences to Khoza’s family and wished the injured MPs a speedy recovery. “We convey our deepest condolences to the family of comrade Khoza, the ANC as well as his fellow members and staff who worked with him,” Deputy Speaker Lechesa Tsenoli said. Tsenoli, who visited the injured MPs at hospitals, said their thoughts and prayers were also with the trio, and the eight occupants of the other vehicle who were injured in the crash, for their speedy recovery. The ANC said Khoza had died while serving the country and the people. ANC spokesperson Zizi Kodwa said Khoza had died in the line of duty and they conveyed their condolences to the family. The IFP’s chief whip, Narend Singh, also extended the party’s condolences to Khoza’s family and friends and to all others injured. “The IFP further supports calls for a full investigation into the circumstances surrounding this accident and urges all motorists to drive with the utmost caution during the current wet winter being experienced in the Western Cape,” Singh said. ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu said it was with the “deepest sadness” that they had learnt of the accident. “We are deeply saddened by this loss as it occurred during an oversight visit in the service of the people of South Africa.” DA chief whip John Steenhuisen said his party was “shocked and deeply saddened” to learn of the accident. He said the DA extended its heartfelt condolences to Khoza’s family, friends and loved ones. “We join them in mourning their loss and wish them strength during this difficult time,” Steenhuisen said. Daily News