Suspended caretaker Billy van Niekerk spoke to the Daily News  just after his request for a protection order was refused in the Durban Magistrate’s Court. He was advised to instead approach the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration. Van Niekerk claimed about 10 boys who were members of the school rugby team were illegally boarding on the school premises, without adult supervision. He also claimed these boys had made life difficult for him and his family, also living on the school premises. Van Niekerk initially travelled daily from eManzimtoti to the school until, he said, the school offered him accommodation. He apparently regretted this decision when he had to deal with the “ill-disciplined pupils” who also lived there. The caretaker said he opened a case of assault in May at the Durban Central police station, after he was allegedly badly assaulted by the pupils outside the school gate. “I asked their friends to leave so that I could lock the gate. They refused and started attacking me from behind,” he claimed. Van Niekerk said the case was never investigated by the police. He also showed the Daily News a video clip of him being attacked by one of the pupils, also in May. Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane, police spokesperson, said a case of assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm was opened on May 9. The docket, he said, was only sent to the senior public prosecutor for a decision on August 17 - the day the chaos began at George Campbell. This was when a 56-second voice clip went viral on social media where a pupil alleged a group planned to cause protests at the school to force the Department of Education to pass them. On Thursday, pupils blocked the exits at the school. They claimed black pupils were called “monkeys” by two white teachers. On Friday, police had to disperse the group to allow the teachers to leave. Van Niekerk said since his suspension and eviction, his 16-year-old son had not been to school because he feared for his life. “I am not a racist. I am actually a victim here. I want justice. I am now homeless after I was told to pack and go. I didn’t even have a chance to pack all my stuff.” Kwazi Mthethwa, Education spokesperson, said the department was not aware of the assault case against the pupils. He encouraged Van Niekerk to follow up with the police. Mthethwa said as an employee, he should have reported the allegations to the department. “The department was never made aware of this until the incident last week. He must actually approach us instead of running to the media,” he said. Meanwhile, Mthethwa said teaching and learning resumed at the school yesterday, but there was some disturbance when the National Professional Teachers’ Organisation of SA wanted their teachers to address the union during working hours and to protest in sympathy with the suspended employees. They wanted the implicated pupils to be suspended. Daily News