This was established on Thursday after a search and seizure operation conducted with the assistance of an external forensic audit company. According to Dr Albert van Jaarsveld, UKZN Vice Chancellor, 286 computers were taken during the operation. He was speaking at a press briefing at the Westville campus on Thursday. Van Jaarsveld said this was in addition to the 18 staff members who were issued with letters of intent to suspend. One person has already been dismissed. In May, the Sunday Tribune reported on a UKZN syndicate that allegedly sold medicine and other health science places at UKZN for up to R500 000. The alleged masterminds -Varsha, 44, and Hiteshkumar Bhatt, 46, and a former Chatsworth school teacher, Preshni Hiramun, 54 - are facing charges of fraud and contravention of the Prevention and Combating of Corrupt Activities Act. The three are accused of working as agents in cahoots with a syndicate at UKZN to fraudulently enrol students in the health science faculty and school of medicine. Addressing the media on Thursday, Van Jaarsveld said: “University management initiated this investigation, which has led to the uncovering of the syndicate. This investigation was a lengthy process as it was critical to ensure that all people implicated face the full might of the law.” He added that acts of fraud, bribery and corruption divert scarce resources away from the university’s core operations and threaten not only the institution’s reputation, but “also the integrity of our selection and admission processes”. To date, five students have been implicated in the UKZN admissions scam. He said if there were other students found to have been involved, legal action would be taken against them. This, he said, reiterated the imperative that the university remained committed to protecting the integrity and reputation of all qualifications awarded by the institution. Notably absent from the briefing were members of the Medical Students Representative Council (MSRC). Medical students have been protesting since last 
Friday, demanding that management reveal the outcome of an investigation into the selling of places. On Thursday, two students were arrested during a scuffle with police. A protesting student told the Daily News that the medical students were also aggrieved by a placement issue at local hospitals. She explained that the current batch of students needing to be placed at local hospitals were being told that there was no place for them. “They are telling us that we have to go to hospitals that are further away from home to hospitals in Empangeni, Pietermaritzburg and KwaDukuza. “We believe this is so they can place Cuban students. This is unfair. If we, who are studying here in Durban, are being told that there is no place for us, where are they going to put the Cuban-trained students?” the medical student asked. Students said although the week-long strike meant they would be behind with work, they would do whatever it took to have their concerns made known. Fifth-year students are expected to write examinations next week. Normah Zondo, UKZN Corporate Relations Acting Executive Director said management was due to meet the MSRC on Thursday. She added that students had requested an external mediator; however the MSRC failed to arrive for a meeting. Daily News