Costa is a popular figure in the dressing room and remains in regular contact with close friends Willian, David Luiz and Spain teammates including Cesc Fabregas. Some fear they could be the next to be discarded in brutal fashion by title-winning manager Conte amid off-field tensions and an awful start to the new campaign. Chelsea have ordered Costa, who has two years left on a £180000-a-week contract, to return to the club from Brazil, train, get match-fit and put himself in contention for first-team selection. It is the first hint of a route back into Conte’s team for the 28-year-old striker who was told in a text from the manager in June that he was no longer in his plans. Costa was given permission to report a week late for pre-season training in the hope a transfer deal might 
be struck with Atletico Madrid, the only club he said he was prepared to leave Chelsea for. He was expected back in mid-July and has been informed by the club that he had to report for training but he is yet to return. In an exclusive interview with Sportsmail from Brazil, Costa said he was prepared to continue training in his hometown Lagarto and would accept club fines rather than return to Chelsea and trained with the reserves. He also said Conte was a “great coach” but lacked “charisma” and was used to working in Italian football “where everyone is very serious”. A difficult pre-season for Chelsea was compounded by a 3-2 defeat at home by Burnley on Saturday. Gary Cahill and Fabregas were sent off and Conte criticised their discipline. Chelsea have collected four red cards in their last three official games. Cahill and Fabregas are now banned for the Premier League match against Tottenham at Wembley on Sunday, heaping pressure on a small squad. Eden Hazard, Tiemoue Bakayoko and Pedro all missed the Burnley defeat with injuries. Conte has complained about a shortage of options, which had not gone down well inside the club, but Chelsea were expected to make improved offers for Danny Drinkwater of Leicester and Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain of Arsenal. - Daily Mail