Members of Scopa told Sassa officials on Tuesday they were surprised they did not know what the South African Post Office (Sapo) would deliver, which would then leave the door open for CPS to get the tender after an open tender process. The contract is for the distribution of social grants to 
17million beneficiaries. Acting Sassa chief executive Pearl Bhengu and her team came under fire from Scopa when it found out it was not clear what Sapo would deliver. Themba Godi, Scopa chairperson, said Sassa was ducking and diving and did not want to appoint Sapo to distribute social grants next year. He said the plan presented by Bhengu and her team left a lot to be desired and was full of holes. Ntombovuyo Mente of the EFF and Mkhuleko Hlengwa of the IFP also accused Sassa of using delaying tactics to ensure CPS was given the contract. They were backed by Saki Kekana of the ANC, who said an attempt was being made to give the contract to CPS. “Let’s use their presentation as a roadmap to migrate from CPS. We will be using this as a Bible to measure their compliance with the Constitutional Court decision,” said Kekana. “On the issue of Sapo, I have been looking at your body language. When you talk about Sapo there is no commitment. You say you don’t know which part Sapo will deliver. You have had meetings with Sapo, but you don’t know what they will deliver. The suspicion from the chairperson is correct,” he said. Hlengwa said there was an attempt to bring back CPS through the back door by any means. He called on Parliament and other state entities to ensure that CPS was not brought back. Mente said they were concerned about the entire contract issue, saying she suspected that by the way Sassa was conducting its business it would ensure there was no other company available and it could then give the tender to CPS next year. “When you take that long (to finalise the process) National Treasury will subject the deviation to financial rules and we will be back to square one. 
This CPS must not come back,” she said. Daily News