The ANC took party funding seriously, he said, after adopting a stance at the Mangaung elective conference in 2012 to create a legal framework to ensure that party funding had  accountability and integrity for parties. “We receive donations based on good faith. They are not transactional, no conditions are attached or based on aiming to do business with government. Any donation to us as per our fundraising policy, is received from legitimate business, or a properly obtained job and remuneration,” Mkhize said after addressing a women’s lunch organised by the Progressive Business Forum (PBF) in Johannesburg. “Donations are known to the leadership; you have obviously not seen any (leaked Gupta) e-mails linking the party. We also want to make it clear that whatever is happening out there, the ANC and treasury office are not part of the business activities mentioned, and so people must not assume that the ANC is involved We take the allegations seriously, but we are not entangled in them.” Fixers He said sometimes “pretenders and fixers” emerged claiming to be advocating for the ANC. “Someone somewhere can claim Luthuli House knows about a transaction... If you hear that kind of speak, know that they do not represent the ANC. As the ANC, such claims are important for us, to enable us to take action.” However, in his presentation to the ad hoc committee in Parliament on Wednesday, Mkhize admitted that the controversial Gupta family had donated funds to the ANC. While he was unable to say for how long the Gupta funding had been ongoing, he pointed out that the donations were credible. “I do not want an impression to be created that we are funded by the Guptas. They have made a donation, we wrote to them, thanked them, appreciating their generosity. I haven’t sat down to check how much they contributed or for how long.” The ad hoc committee is investigating party funding following Economic Freedom Fighters’ MP Marshall Dlamini’s claim that the Guptas footed the bill for the ANC’s 2012 conference. ANA