Durban – Durbanites living and travelling in London have spoken of the fear that engulfed the city on Wednesday night after the terror attack at Westminster that left at least five people dead – including a police officer and the attacker – and about 40 injured. Detailing the sequence of events, Mark Rowley, the national head of counter-terrorism policing and the acting deputy commissioner, said the attack started when a car was driven over Westminster Bridge, hitting and injuring a number of members of the public and three police officers who were on their way back from a commendation ceremony. “The car then crashed near parliament and at least one man – armed with a knife – continued the attack, trying to enter parliament,” said Rowley. Policeman Keith Palmer, 48, was protecting parliament from the attack when the knifeman attacked him. The attacker was shot by police. Palmer had been working at the Parliamentary and Diplomatic Protection Command and was a police officer for 15 years. New Scotland Yard, less than a kilometre away from where the attack took place, flew its flag at half mast in honour of the fallen officer and victims. According to British broadcaster Sky News, armed police raided a home on Thursday morning and closed off several roads in Birmingham. The raid is apparently connected to the terror attack. While a city-wide lock-down of London took place, Daily News reporter Mphathi Nxumalo was leaving after visiting his mother. He was at Gatwick Airport, south of central London, waiting for his flight home when he heard news of the attack via social media and a telephone call from his worried mom. He said: “Seeing a vibrant place like Westminster Abbey – where there is great busking and historical sites to see – on lock-down is scary and highly disturbing. There are literally thousands of tourists from around the world at Westminster daily, taking selfies, going on the London Eye and taking boat rides on the River Thames." “A deep sadness is the only way to describe how I feel about this. Theresa May, the British Prime Minister, called the attack “sick and depraved”. According to the BBC, May was less than 60m away in parliament at the time of the terror attack. “Rowley said the UK threat level had been high for some time and would not change." “He said London’s strength lay in its ability to stand together through tough times." “It is this strength, I believe, that will also keep the vibrant atmosphere at Westminster and its surrounds." “This is a place that I had visited less than two days ago." “What I found amazing was the vibrant atmosphere, which is why it is so sad to see a place of joy, excitement and happiness turn into a place of fear, sadness and pandemonium within minutes." “The only attack one would expect there is from a wayward selfie stick, from someone trying to get that perfect picture." “At the airport, I was filled with such dread after hearing about the horrific attack." “After my mom called to ask if I was okay, I looked around the airport and watched as the mood and scene changed within minutes." “Security guards, who were initially warm and friendly, were now serious and distant. Their numbers increased across the airport, armed with semi-automatic rifles. Sniffer dogs were also deployed and were checking restaurants for anything suspicious." “Everyone was in a hyper-alert state. Body language had changed from being relaxed to tense." “It was really frightening to see such a mood change." “I was also worried that my flight home, via Dubai, would be delayed. It was sad to leave London with such a bitter after-taste, considering my stay had been filled with so many sweet memories." “However, I do know the city will not be cowed by such an attack and will rise above this challenge." “I plan to return one day to Westminster Bridge and soak up the mirth and joy that characterises England’s capital.” Meanwhile, Myrna Rall, another South African in London, was with her family at Madame Tussauds wax museum, which is near Westminster, when they were told of the attack. She said visitors were kept inside. “Just one Sunday ago we went to see the Big Ben and the London Eye with the kids. It was awful when we were told of the attack. Everyone was kept inside the building for about an hour,” she said. Nelson Kgwete, the Department of International Relations and Co-operation spokesperson, confirmed on Thursday morning that no South Africans were injured or killed in this attack. Former Durbanite Glennis Haley, who lives in south-west London, was at home when she first heard of the attack. “I was overcome by a sense of sadness and quickly checked to see if my family and friends were safe. None of them was caught up in the attack,” Haley said. Haley has lived in London for the past 16 years and felt “fairly safe” and had confidence in the authorities. Daily News