The woman made off with the family’s cellphones, laptops, personal items and money after she attacked her employer with a knife. The injured housewife’s distraught husband said when he rushed into their flat, he found his wife lying on the bathroom floor in a pool of blood. The husband, who asked not to be named, said he had been at home with his wife and the domestic worker for most of the day. “They were laughing and joking. Everything seemed fine. My wife even offered the woman’s daughter some fried chips,” he recalled. He left the two women in the house and went to fetch their 15-year-old son from madressa. On their return, the teenager got out of the car and went inside the home. The man was about to drive off when his son shouted that he needed to come inside quickly “I was phoning my wife to tell her I had dropped our son off. Her phone was just ringing. “My son told me his mother was lying on the floor and had been badly hurt. I rushed inside to find her lying there with her throat slit, and stab wounds on her head and hand,” he said. The husband said that the worker demanded R35000 from his wife. When she said they did not keep that kind of money in the house, the woman became aggressive and attacked her. Slit “She slit my wife’s throat and continued stabbing her on her head and hands until she passed out. “She thought my wife was dead and she dragged her by her hair to the bathroom where she covered her with two lounge rugs and an ironing board. “My son got inside and his mother’s phone was ringing. He called out for her and heard sounds coming from the bathroom,” the husband said. He said his wife was trying to tell them what had happened. “I called an ambulance, but they took too long to come. I then ran downstairs to the shops below and asked for four men to please help me. “Once my wife was in the car, we rushed her to hospital,” he said. The 48-year-old mother-of-three was stabilised and has stitches on her head, throat and hands. She is still traumatised by the incident. Her husband, meanwhile, is urging the community to help trace the woman.