Durban - A Newlands East family are living in fear after their home was petrol bombed and shot at by a rampaging mob, following a murder at the weekend.Ryall Ryan, 26, was shot dead on Saturday, allegedly by a member of the family, which has placed the community on edge. It apparently follows a seven-year feud between the two men.The alleged gunman handed himself over to police and was expected to appear in court today.Ryan s sister, Lurvishia Jacobs, said her brother was gunned down while buying airtime from a shop. Ryan, a minibus taxi driver and father of a 2-year-old, was shot four times in the back. He died at the scene. This is a grudge and was premeditated. The father of a man who handed himself over to police for the murder of a man in Newlands East at the weekend, holds up a rock that was thrown through his lounge window. Picture: Zainul Dawood The accused alleged Ryall had shot him in the leg seven years ago. My brother was acquitted of the charges in February 2016 at the Durban Regional Court. This was a cowardly act and senseless, Jacobs said. The father of the alleged gunman told the Daily News he only became aware of what was happening when his son handed himself over to the police at Durban Central police station. While I was at the police station, tension in the community rose as the news spread. My family had been verbally abused by people walking past both houses, and people in cars swearing out of their windows. A rock and a beer bottle (were) thrown at my lounge window. One person tried to jump over the wall, but hurt himself on the spikes, he said. He said he was living in fear and was contemplating hiring private security guards to protect his son s home. That night while his son was kept in a holding cell at the police station, his son s child, wife and mother sought refuge at a relative s home after receiving death threats, the father said. My son s home was attacked twice. The first time they poured petrol on the driveway gate and set it alight. Someone also fired rounds from behind the backyard. The bullets shattered a window and split the aluminium framework, he said. The father said he had been told by passers-by to expect a war in the coming week before Ryan s funeral. A date has not yet been set.Neighbours said cars with people had been stopping outside the house frequently since the incident. We are mourning my brother s death. Nothing we do will bring him back. The community is outraged, said Jacobs.Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said a case of murder had been opened at the Newlands East police station.Daily News