Eskom’s award-winning hydroelectric plant is now powering the South African economy after the final fourth generating unit became operational in January. The new unit adds an extra 333megawatts (MW) to the national electricity grid, meaning that, along with the other three units, a total of 1332MW is available. The scheme is Africa’s newest and largest (in terms of capacity) and the 14th largest (in terms of capacity) in the world. Ingula is situated on the continental watershed known as the Little Drakensberg range, dividing the Vaal catchments which flows into the Atlantic Ocean, and the Tugela catchments flowing into the Indian Ocean. Eskom explained that a specific combination of factors was necessary to build a pumped storage scheme. It has to have the right geology, enough available water and two sites to build dams, which are close enough together, but with at least 400m difference in altitude. It also needs to be close to the national grid and existing infrastructure. The search for the right site began in the 1980s. More than 90 potential sites were looked at and three were shortlisted. The scheme consists of an upper and lower dam, each capable of holding about 22million cubic metres of water. The dams are 4.6km apart and are connected by underground waterways through a subterranean powerhouse with the four 333MW generators. The four units are 350m underground in the world’s largest machine hall in mud-rock. Low When there is a low energy demand, the pump/turbines are used to pump the water from the lower dam back to the upper dam. Situated across two provincial boundaries, the natural setting of the scheme is one of very high biodiversity with several ecosystems, including natural Highveld grasslands, high altitude Wilge River Wetlands and high altitude forests. About 8000 hectares around the power station have been declared a nature reserve. The word Ingula refers to the creamy contents at the top of a milk calabash, inspired by the mountains and foamy river waters, as well as the cultural symbols and traditions of the people on both sides of the border. At least 2000 workers were recruited from local communities and municipalities in both provinces. At peak times, there were more than 4000 workers on the site. And more than R6.27bn of the wage bill went towards black women-owned enterprises, black youth-owned enterprises and small and medium enterprises. “This exceeded many of the national targets set in these categories,” said Abram Masango, Eskom group executive. Ingula has also spent R20million on upgrading local schools and providing extra classrooms, as well as 75 mobile science laboratories, and extra tuition in maths, science and accounting for 400 matric pupils. Similar investments were made into health and small business development. To benefit the community the uThukela District Municipality and its major towns of Ladysmith, Estcourt and Bergville, Eskom and CMI Joint Venture have pledged R50m towards the construction of a new neonatal ward and general refurbishments at Ladysmith Regional Hospital. The hydroelectric project won two awards at the annual South African Institute of Civil Engineering and South African Forum of Civil Engineering Contractors ceremonies in October. One was the Most Outstanding Civil Engineering Achievement Award and the other was the Technical Excellence Award. Daily News