The overriding message at the funeral service was for Zuma to heed calls for him to step down. This came amid speculation of an impending cabinet reshuffle, mainly targeted at Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan and his deputy, Mcebisi Jonas. But it was a seething letter written a year ago by Kathrada that brought home renewed calls for the country’s leader to resign. Reading his eulogy at the Westpark Cemetery, where mourners converged for the ANC stalwart‘s funeral, former president Kgalema Motlanthe received a rapturous and standing ovation when he repeated Kathrada’s call for Zuma to leave office. Decision Uncle Kathy, as Kathrada was affectionately called, wrote to Zuma imploring him to submit to the will of the people and resign as news of his decision to fire Nhlanhla Nene as finance minister emerged. At the time, Barbara Hogan, Kathrada’s wife and former minister of health and of public enterprises, called on ANC members to “bombard Luthuli House with the message that Zuma must go”, adding “this man is creating economic sabotage”. Motlanthe minced no words as he spoke of the late leader’s character of standing for what he believed in. “Three-hundred-and-fifty- four days ago today, Comrade Kathrada wrote this letter to which a reply has not been forthcoming. “As you are aware, his letter went without any formal reply “I have quoted Comrade Kathy at length in this regard to make the point that for better or for worse, what he stood for never changed according to the fluidities of history.” ANC Struggle stalwart Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, who was seated next to EFF leader Julius Malema, could be seen clapping and smiling when Motlanthe repeated Kathrada’s call for Zuma to step down. Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi was seen clapping his hands in glee, as scores of mourners rose to their feet and cheered Motlanthe on. One shouted, “Yes, South Africa, stand up!”, while another said, “Phansi ngo (down with) Zuma!” Malema, who had been calling on Zuma to step down since his expulsion from the ANC in 2012, told Independent Media they were happy the Kathrada family had honoured the stalwart’s wish for Zuma not to attend. Meanwhile, Ahmed Kathrada Foundation chief executive officer Neeshan Balton yesterday painstakingly pointed out that no one had been excluded from attending the funeral, saying “no one was sent an invite to attend”. The presidency had earlier confirmed Zuma would not attend the funeral and memorial service “in compliance with the wishes of the family”. This is the second prominent ANC family to bar Zuma from attending a funeral service. Former sports minister Makhenkesi Stofile, who also served as the South African ambassador to Germany, instructed his family on his deathbed that Zuma should not attend his funeral held in the Eastern Cape last year. In an unexpected move, Balton called on Finance 
Minister Pravin Gordhan to stand up, and said, to loud applause: “Irrespective of whether you remain minister in the days or weeks to come, you remain true to the values and principles that Kathrada would be proud of.” An emotional Gordhan wiped his eyes. Reshuffle He has been identified as among ministers Zuma wanted to axe in his looming cabinet shuffle. When asked about Balton’s comments, Gordhan told eNCA that he was honoured. And while plenty of ANC stalwarts have expressed dismay at the manner in which the ruling party has degenerated and lost its moral compass, in his tribute Gauteng Premier David Makhura implored veterans to continue guiding the movement. Kathrada’s funeral service was attended by key political figures known to be opposed to Zuma’s leadership of the country and the ANC. They included former Mpumalanga premier Mathews Phosa, and former Cosatu boss Zwelinzima Vavi, who was expelled in 2005 from the labour federation, which is an alliance partner of the ANC. Former president Thabo Mbeki and his wife, Zanele, and the last two remaining Rivonia Trialists - Denis Goldberg and Andrew Mlangeni - also attended the funeral. Human rights lawyer George Bizos and former AU Commission chairperson Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, a presidential hopeful, were also there. SACP general secretary Blade Nzimande said Kathrada was part of a generation 
that was ahead of its times, adding it was unfortunate that he left the ANC movement at a time it desperately needed his wisdom. ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe said Kathrada was incorruptible, not only in politics, but in his personal life. “He was a man you knew could never let you down.” Anti-apartheid activist Sophie de Bruyn said Kathrada played an instrumental role in the 1956 Women’s March. In his parting words, Kathrada declared his love for Hogan, whom the foundation and his family have asked to continue highlighting the 
values and love for the 
country that she and Kathrada shared.