Corporate businesses wanting cartoon and mascot characters for promotional purposes also turned to Gardner for his expertise in designing and manufacturing custom-made fibreglass figures. People wanting to make an impact at a fancy dress party knew where to go. But now, it is all up for sale - and at rock-bottom prices. Gardner’s wife, Caroline Smart - the award-winning stage and radio actress, freelance scriptwriter and TV producer - valiantly tried to keep her late husband’s legacy going, but explained that “without his expertise and mechanical knowledge when it comes to cartoon character creation, it has proved impossible”. Gardner studied engineering and had worked as an apprentice mechanic. It was these skills which gave him a wide overview of running his costume hiring business, which involved manufacturing fibreglass head moulds for character costumes. “He never used a pattern: just put the material on the table and wielded the scissors. He seldom got anything wrong with his measurements.” The building bearing the landmark sign “Troubadour Productions” has been sold and has to be vacated by the weekend. Smart has been holding an “everything-must-go” sale and a steady stream of bargain-hunters has been checking out the treasure trove of countless rows of costumes and accessories, props, sound equipment and office furniture. Thousands have already been snapped up, but there are still 5 000 available, including wedding dresses, medieval outfits, suits, shirts, dresses, hats, ballet shoes Colourful dresses were going for a mere R50. Good quality graduation gowns are R100 each and Smart says someone could buy the stock of more than 120 for R11000 “and start their own business”. Fabric There are dozens of LPs, as well as the tools of the trade: sewing machines and fabric. Then there are 25 fibreglass moulds for the heads of character costumes, along with the racks to carry them. “If they have a knowledge of working with fibreglass moulds, they could also start their own business.” Anyone interested in taking all 25 moulds could also take over the Troubadour name. Gardner had a very distinctive and memorable laugh, and Smart recalled that any comedian who did not hear his voice on opening night was a worried man. That voice fell silent last May when he succumbed to cancer. Now, as another part of his legacy will soon be no more, comes the chance for bargain-hunters to get a piece or two of Durban history.  * Sale times are 9am-5pm, 292 King Cetshwayo/Jan Smuts Highway. Call 0312092817/8.