Their plans were thwarted and hearts crushed when a driver from the home delivered their beloved friend’s ashes to their home in a plastic shopping packet. An emotional Carla Borges told the Daily News that she and the deceased woman shared a friendship that spanned more than a decade. The woman lived with the couple in their home and was found dead on March 17. Her body was taken to the mortuary. Despite her attempts, Borges was told she was not allowed to identify the body because she was not family. Borges then tracked down her friend’s relatives, who her friend had not been in contact with for more than 20 years. Once she got approval from the woman’s family to identify the body, she took the letters of proxy to the mortuary and was finally able to identify her friend’s remains. On March 23, Borges and her wife made arrangements with a Phoenix-based funeral home to have the woman’s remains cremated and then handed to them. “At the mortuary, my wife and I spoke to an employee from the funeral home and discussed what we had wanted. He told us the R5 200 that we were quoted did not include an urn. “At his suggestion, we agreed that our friend be cremated and her ashes be sealed in a plastic bag and wrapped in a white cloth. To us, this meant we could simply open the cloth and scatter her ashes as she had requested,” Borges said. By Saturday, the couple had not received their loved one’s ashes and they contacted the funeral parlour. “There was a flurry of messages back and forth, and we were told that they were waiting for the death certificate. No other information was forthcoming,” Borges stated. On Tuesday, Borges was told that the ashes were on their way. “When the driver came to the door, he handed me the packet. I took it, in absolute disbelief. I walked towards Cristina and told her they had dropped off the ashes in a plastic packet. “When we looked on the floor, there was a trail of ashes. The packet had a hole in it,” she said. The driver handed Borges an envelope with documents, but there was no receipt or certificate of cremation. “I have had dogs cremated and never have I experienced this. When my dogs are cremated, we are given their ashes in a box with their details and a cremation certificate. Their ashes come in a wooden box,” she said. Borges said she was upset about the way they were treated. “We had planned to go down to the South Coast to scatter her ashes. That was where she spent most of her childhood and had her happiest memories. “She told us that was where she wanted her ashes to be scattered. Now we are not even sure if these are her ashes,” Borges expressed. According to an owner of another Durban-based funeral parlour, ashes are usually given to families in either a wooden urn or a clear plastic bag. The couple have since been served with a lawyer’s letter from the funeral home, saying they would be sued and were ordered to retract their statements made on social media and other newspapers. The Borges have vowed to seek justice for their friend. Funeral parlour management who undertook the Borges’ request was not available for comment. Daily News