Durban residents Rhyan and his wife Susan Rudman will leave South African at the end of March, hoping to conquer the peak of Mount Everest, which is 6189m above sea level, wearing rhino costumes. They aim to raise funds for the Thula Thula Rhino Orphanage in KwaZulu-Natal through the initiative. The orphanage was attacked by poachers last month. Two baby rhinos were killed, caregivers were beaten and a woman was raped. The couple hope to raise R50 000. Accompanying the Rudmans are a group of nine intrepid trekkers and climbers, hiking for the same cause but conducting different tasks. Some will be there to photograph and film the event. They will trek to Everest Base Camp and then climb the peak. Some will wear rhino suits during the climb. Everest Base Camp, via Kongma La Pass trek, is an adventure trek over the challenging terrain of the Himalayas of Nepal near Mount Everest. Rudman said they would follow the famous “Everest Trail” to the village of Namche Bazaar. “The trek combines most of the spectacular vantage points in the Everest region. After we reach Namche Bazaar, we move on to Tengboche, Dingboche, Lobuche and Gorekshep,” he said. Some of the group will attempt the technical climb of Island Peak, hoping to stand on the summit in their rhino gear. “We want to send a message out to the world to show how dire the situation is and to what extent these poachers will go to harm our wildlife. Our government is hell-bent on legalising the trade (in rhino horn),” Rudman said. He started training for the climb three months ago, including speed walking twice a day. “There is a lot of walking during the climb. On the weekends we go to the Drakensberg and select a peak to climb. We also walk for 20km along the mountains with no backpack. I have been a mountaineer all my life. It is something I enjoy doing,” he said. Rudman said the Thula Thula Rhino Orphanage was close to home and he knew the management and staff. “We have been fighting this fight,” said Rudman, “but now it’s been made more real.” He said wildlife was South Africa’s heritage and should not be used for human consumption. “It cannot be sold. We will print the slogan ‘Stop trade in rhino horn’ on a South African flag. This will be left behind near the peak or base camp for the tourists and visitors to read. “This will highlight the atrocities back home in our wildlife nature reserves. (We hope) the message will spread.” For details on how to support the rhino orphanage, visit 
www.doit4charity.co.za/Climb4Rhino.2017 Daily News 