Durban - A number of specialist doctors have reportedly left KwaZulu-Natal public hospitals for private practice, fearing a new overtime policy will severely reduce their pay. I know of at least 15 doctors who have resigned. Most of us still left have started working on setting up private practice. It will be a huge loss of skills and expertise to the department (of health), said one doctor. The state spends an enormous amount training doctors to specialise, it s a shame to be losing them to the private health (sector) or other countries. She and three others spoke to The Mercury on condition of anonymity about the mass exodus of sought-after specialists. They said the reason doctors were quitting public service was due to the National Policy on Commuted Overtime for Medical and Dental Personnel, which caused an uproar in medical circles when mooted in December last year. National Department of Health spokesperson Joe Maila said the panic was over the proposal for different rates for doctors on site compared with doctors on call. The implementation had been delayed after issues were picked up .Maila said the department was involved in ongoing talks with various role-players. There might be slight changes here and there, said Maila, but would not be drawn on details. KZN Health Department head Dr Sifiso Mtshali said the resignations of specialists could not be linked to the commuted overtime as the policy had not yet been implemented. He said it was rather for the doctors own personal development and opportunities in the private sector. One of the doctors said the policy would cut their overtime salary to a third of what they were currently earning. Mtshali said that in the medical profession, overtime was commuted, which meant doctors were on call and not physically present in the hospital. Commuted overtime is payment for work done over and above the standard required 40 hours per week. Salaries are not affected by whether commuted overtime has been worked or not worked, as salaries are standard and based on the standard 40 hours per week of compulsory work that must be done, he said. Not all doctors participated in overtime, therefore not all of them received additional payments, Mtshali noted. Another doctor said: The government doesn't pay as well as the private sector, so the overtime supplements and brings specialists' salaries on a par as far as possible. If they take that away they're effectively cutting our salaries. She had not yet resigned as she was waiting to see what happens . We believe the department will implement the policy at the start of the new financial year on April 1. One doctor was a week into his new private practice, having resigned. He said that with almost 10 years' experience, he took home just over R80 000 a month. With his overtime slashed, this would come down by more than R20000. I sacrificed a lot to become a specialist. Six years in medical school, two in community service, the five years as a registrar (specialist in training) take everything you have as a person. He said that as a specialist at a public hospital, he worked his mandatory hours treating patients while teaching registrars on the job and doing administration.The South African Medical Association - which is part of talks with the national department - declined to comment. Daily News