Neighbours were reluctant to speak further to the media. Now that Sibongile has been arrested and implicated in the abduction of her child, they did not want to interfere in “family matters”. A woman, who said she was a relative, said the baby’s mother was a respected member of the community and was raised in the area. She pointed to the mother’s family home, which is next door to her husband’s home, recalling that she first got to know about the missing baby and the “hijacking” from reading a newspaper article on Friday. She said before that, people in the community had not known about the incident. “My heart broke when I heard the news,” she said. “I felt sorry for the little baby and my prayers were for the baby to be returned unharmed,” said the woman, who did not want to be named. She did not want to talk about the Sibongile. “I heard on the radio that she was a suspect along with two other people. “All I can tell you is that she is a teacher at the school in this area and I have respect for her as a teacher and as a relative,” she said. Another neighbour, who also wished to remain anonymous, said she had planned to visit the family after reports of the hijacking and abduction, but changed her mind after hearing that Sibongile had been arrested. “I have been following the story and I am happy that the baby was found safe and unharmed. “I am, however, afraid to go to the house as a concerned neighbour because the matter has now become sensitive,” she said. She would rather follow the story through the media and give the family space. Like the neighbours, Christopher Mbambo, the father of the baby, who had been speaking to the media since the incident on Friday, was tight-lipped on Sunday and refused to speak to reporters. When the Daily News requested an interview at Durban Central Police Station, and then later at his home, Christopher refused, saying he had nothing to say to the media, including the fact that his wife was arrested. This was in contrast to the previous two days when the father of 10 pleaded through the media for the safe return of his baby. On Sunday, Christopher was hostile and appeared extremely angry when asked to comment about the baby being found. “I have nothing to say to you. In fact, you must write whatever you want,” Christopher snapped. Christopher and another man with him forbade the media from taking pictures of him and his house and threatened to sue. Daily News