Among other grievances was the lack of a telephone in their working space, leaving them using their cellphones and airtime to do their jobs. “We last received uniforms in 2013, although department policy says we should receive new uniforms every two years and basics such as new T-shirts and socks each year. “We also don’t have basic necessities such as a sink to wash our hands in the toilets and a fridge to put our food in,” the disgruntled worker said. Captain Nqobile Gwala, provincial police spokesperson, denied workers were evicted. “According to Jozini police, those are baseless allegations. No such incident was reported,” said Gwala. However, a Jozini mortuary technician, who did not want to be named, insisted police had evicted them from the premises. “When the department had not responded to our demands following a meeting in January, we sent a letter on March 8 telling them that we would hand over our old uniforms, which we duly did. Since then, we have been working in civilian clothing, which is against department policy,” said the technician. He said they ran the risk of being charged if they worked without protective gear and that is why they decided not to work on Tuesday. This, he said, led to the facility manager calling a private security company to evict them, “which had no effect”. “The manager then called the police and we explained to them that we would not leave the premises without a written document from management telling us to go, but they threatened to evict us forcefully and we then left,” he said. He said police had escorted them out of the facility and on Wednesday they went to the Umkhanyakude Health District Manager to enquire if they had been suspended or fired. They were apparently told they would receive a lock-out letter, barring them from accessing the facility. He said the department did not conduct site visits and only took a minimal interest once stories emerged in the media. Sam Mkhwanazi, health spokesperson, said the department valued its employees as they were the heartbeat which it could not survive without. “The department recognises that employees must be provided with the adequate tools of trade. To this end, during the 2013/14 financial year, Forensic Pathology Services employees were issued with five sets of uniforms each,” Mkhwanazi said. He added that the uniform included five flight suits; five pairs of socks; five T-shirts; one bunny jacket; one reflective jacket; one pair of boots; one rain suit and a protective gown to wear when collecting human remains from scenes, or conducting surgical procedures. He said in the following financial year, the department had embarked on a process to procure new uniforms, but after following due process and awarding the tender, the preferred bidder failed to deliver and withdrew. “The process had to be restarted and a new contractor was appointed. However, the procurement has not happened due to an appeal,” Mkhwanazi said. Dr Steven Naidoo, who worked as a state pathologist in Durban for 28 years, said there were multiple challenges that related to the specific nature of the work. “There have been many publicised cases where the forensic work failed to meet the standards required. “There have been many violations of adequate service delivery, standards of professionalism and ethical practices as well as many frankly criminal acts perpetrated at these facilities.” Naidoo said one of the big issues that had not been resolved in the 11 years since the health ministry takeover from the police service, in 
2006, had been the lack of appropriate professional training and qualifications of the technical and support staff; including training of facility managers. “The outcome of this is that service delivery has suffered terribly. Some of the very new mortuary facilities in KwaZulu-Natal, such as in Park Rynie and others, are well-planned and amazingly smart. “But ultimately, even such good facilities will fail in good service delivery if their management systems and maintenance does not pass muster,” Naidoo said. On the importance of staff having consistent access to protective gear, Naidoo said it was vitally important, because working with biological and infectious material can only be done with adequate personal protective equipment (PPE) such as scrubs, gowns, masks, eye protection, gloves, aprons, and boots. “PPE can be an expensive commodity but, in my opinion, its effect on the budget need not run out of control if well-managed and regulated.” Daily News 