The story follows the journey of two young women, Azania played by Enhle Maphumulo and Thandi played by Jo-Anne Reyneke who juggle between running a successful wedding planning company and keeping their deep dark secrets of their lives under the carpet. The two are entrusted by Moswane family matriarch Mam Gertrude, played by Thembi Mtshali-Jones to be the best wedding planners in Johannesburg, but not all is rosy between the two. Azania is often burdened with the task of seeking her mother’s approval and outshining Thandi in running the business. Other heavyweight cast joining the show include award winning actor Mandla Gaduka, Thapelo Mokoena, Emmanuel Castis, Sharlene Surtie-Richards, Lehasa Moloi and Nambitha Ben-Mazwi. The show also sees the return of one-time Zama Zama presenter Nomsa. Director Wandile Magadla said the show will bring an element of surprise, suspense, melodrama and light comedy that all viewers will identify with. “There is a lot of drama and out A-list cast put on an amazing act. Our aim is to make a series that people can relate to, even though it is mainly for entertainment, we want the viewers to feel at home when watching the show. They should want to stay home just to switch on the TV everyday to watch Broken Vows. There are so many light comedy scenes in the show that even after shooting, hours later I still think back at it and start to laugh, ” said Magadla. He said although there is as main storyline that ties up the entire drama series, each episode will zoom in on individual stories of each character as well. “There are many twists and turns in the storyline as each character have their own issues to deal with and skeletons in their closets which they try very hard to hard. But slowly everything will be revealed through each episode. The series is targeted at the whole family and there is not a lot of sexual content,” he said. Magadla said they show will also keep up with everyday life. “We try to in sync our episodes so that the show celebrates special occasions with its viewers. So if it’s Mothers Day in reality, we will celebrate on screen. By doing this we hope to keep the show as current as possible and it also makes viewers connect to the show on an emotional level,” said Magadla. * Broken Vows airs on April 10 on e.tv at 8pm.