Durban – Ethekwini Mayor Zandile Gumede on Wednesday heard how young people were sidelined in the Expanded Public Works Programme (EPWP), with those in charge prioritising those who attended meetings. During a consultative session with the Umbumbulu community and its leaders at Odidini Hall, Umbumbulu, Gumede also heard of how a blind woman had been trying “in vain” to get the mayor’s attention to ask about how to find a job as a disabled person. The mayor later opened the floor for questions and suggestions from the community. “We are here to present to you projects undertaken in the area and how your money was spent in the last financial year. We encourage local residents to get involved in these projects so that they can sustain them on completion." “We also understand that you have challenges such as walking long distances to clinics and schools, so we expect you as a community to tell us what you need us to do to overcome these problems,” Gumede said. She said the council was in the process of “cleaning” the EPWP to ensure that local people benefitted from projects in their areas. Nombulelo Makhanya pleaded with the mayor to look into the process of appointing locals to work in the projects. “When these projects are implemented, people who will be employed are known, and it’s the same people over and over again. Sometimes we are told that we don’t attend meetings. This can’t be right because we all vote, and we are all hungry so we should be treated equally,” she said Dorris Msweli, 39, was born blind. She completed Grade 12 and a couple of training courses, but has never managed to find employment. “I'm happy that I finally found the mayor. I've been trying to get hold of her to ask for help. I need a job. I may be blind but I can do work that abled people can do. I have gone to school but because I’m blind I'm not considered for opportunities,” Msweli said. The mother of an 18-year-old boy, she said she obtained a certificate in switchboard operation and also trained to workshop people about the blind. Mayor Gumede instructed one of the municipal officials to take Msweli’s details so that she could see what could be done for her. Daily News