Howell Road residents in Sydenham feel as if eThekwini mayor Zandile Gumede has failed them.
This is according to residents of low-cost housing units in the area, after the mayor failed to address an ongoing housing issue that has seen more than 60 families out on the streets since last month. Patricia Ntozakhe, a mother of three, said she had lived in her two-bedroom unit at the estate for 16 years. Ntozakhe told the Daily News she had to send her children to live with relatives in KwaMashu because there was nowhere else for them to go. Another resident, Thandi Nyide, said the recent spate of evictions had split families. “Some people are here, sleeping on the street and others had to find other places to stay. You see the children here playing on the road. Only a few managed to find space with their families,” she said. Residents were evicted from their homes because of an ongoing issue with housing agents, First Metro Housing. After the last round of evictions, in which 16 families were forced out of their homes by the private security company, the Red Ants, the mayor apparently promised to “work tirelessly to find a solution” to the issue. “We have a team of officials from the Human Settlements Department and from the mayor’s office to deal with the matter. Social housing is not administered by the city but by an independent body. However, as the chairperson of the ANC, I had to intervene as we are a caring organisation,” said Gumede. She was addressing delegates at an Executive Committee meeting last week. “Those who can afford to pay for housing but did not must be penalised. However, there are those who cannot afford to pay for the housing. We will zoom into this issue and report back to the Executive Committee as I have done now. I am sure something positive will come from this,” said Gumede. However, Popo Zungu, chairperson of the Howell Road committee, said they were told the mayor would be out of the country this week. A source at the municipality confirmed this. “For us, it goes to show that there is no sense of urgency. We have people sleeping on the streets and the mayor did not even come herself to tell us she was leaving. "She sent someone from her office. She promised to find a permanent solution to the problem but she has left us,” said Zungu. “Some residents have managed to find a place to stay. Some are living in the park. We have children, the disabled and pensioners who are homeless. No one cares,” said Zungu. After the evictions, residents had been receiving food parcels from Disaster Management, however that stopped on Sunday. Speaking to the Daily News, residents said the local taxi association had sponsored food and other people had pitched in to help. Residents have been locked in a legal battle with First Metro Housing to obtain their title deeds. They claim that when they moved into the homes more than 17 years ago, they were told they would own their houses after renting for a certain period. Daily News