Durban - Irregularities in selecting candidates for the position of councilor and proportional representing are some of the reasons for the killing of councilors around the province, the Moerane Commission of Inquiry into political killings heard this morning. Giving testimony to the commission sitting at the Department of Public Works in Mayville, councilor Nqaba Mkhwanazi, from Phongolo, told the commission that his fellow ANC councilor Mbhekiseni Khumalo was gunned down last year when he was about to start his second term as councilor in the Hector Peterson branch, in Phongolo. Mkhwanazi said the regional and provincial leadership of the ANC were the underlying cause for the killings of political opponents. “Before his death, we had a meeting as the ANC where another faction which was against Khumalo making threats that there would be a by-election in the ward. The only way that this could happen is by killing a sitting councilor before the end of his term. There was also a municipal roadshow where certain people requested an opportunity to address municipal and political leadership. These people made accusations that Khumalo was not servicing them because they were from another ward. I requested these people to come outside so that I could address them. They came and they ensured me that they would stop making noise when Khumalo was no longer a councilor. They said they would stop when he is dead,” Mkhwanazi said. Advocate Bheki Manyathi, the evidence leader, asked Mkhwanazi if the threat about a by-election had anything to do with Khumalo’s death, to which he responded that the death and the by-election were not a coincidence. “We are of the view that Khumalo was killed because of his selection by the region as a councilor. The municipality has 29 seats of which 15 seats are for ANC councilors, while 10 is for the IFP, two for DA, one for EFF and one for the Independent. Those ANC members who were against Khumalo ganged up with the IFP to eliminate him. The logic is that once Khumalo was killed, the ANC would not have an outright control in the municipality,” he said. “Do you think that the IFP colluded with the unhappy ANC group with the hope that it will win the ward once Mkhwanazi was killed?” Manyathi asked Mkhwanazi. “Yes, we were made to understand that the IFP had already made claims that they would be taking the municipality over, but they did not win the by-election, the ANC retained the ward. In KZN, what leads to the killing of councilors is that in the province there are camps that favour their preferred candidates. Irregularities in selecting candidates by the region are the reason for these killings because people fight when they see someone who is less favorable, and who had received the minimal votes but gets selected for councilor or proportional representative (PR) post,” he said. The commission is ongoing. Daily News