Durban -Bafana Bafana plan to remain optimistic after their loss to Cape Verde and a 16-hour flight from the island.
Training in Durban had to be pushed back because players were suffering of jet lag. Bafana Bafana are staying at the uMhlanga Garden Court Hotel. During a press conference yesterday, head coach Stuart Baxter briefly discussed what took place against Cape Verde on Friday, where Bafana Bafana lost 2-1 to the hosts. This put a dent in the team’s chances of qualifying for the 2018 World Cup in Russia, but there was a glimpse of hope when the qualifier between Senegal and Burkina Faso resulted in a stalemate. Baxter said South Africans always waited for another team to fumble in order for Bafana to make it through in qualifier matches. “With all due respect, in South Africa we love doing this, putting everything on a knife’s edge. I don’t know, maybe it suits the mentality or whatever, but we do that. Very easily, we talk in big, sweeping terms,” said Baxter. “The fact that we haven’t qualified for a long time brings an element of anxiety because, on the one hand, the squad is desperate to give the supporters what they want but hope they don’t fail. On the other hand, there’s this World Cup prize and they are desperately trying to get there.” Bafana Bafana striker Bradley Grobler said their plan now was to win the rest of their games. “We are happy to be home. We enjoy playing in Durban, so we’ll go out there, we’ll give it our best and we are definitely going out there to win.” Bafana Bafana team doctor Dr Thulani Ngwenya said when the team started training, they looked sloppy but picked up the pace. “Yesterday (Saturday), we gave them the day off and they needed to rest,” said Ngwenya. “Now they look better. They look good, fresher.” Unfortunately, the squad could not indulge in a bunny chow because they have a strict diet. Because of the travelling and the delays, the squad could not tour Durban yesterday but they had an hour at the Gateway shopping centre to meet fans. During training on Sunday at the Moses Mabhida Stadium fans said they wanted Bafana Bafana to win against Cape Verde tomorrow. Zanele Mkhize, 58, said: “I want them to win the qualifier and to go represent us at the World Cup and win there, too. “They should not just play well, but score goals and win,” she said. Mkhize, of Pietermaritzburg, would return to Durban tomorrow to watch the boys. Phindile Mapekula, 28, said: “I think the whole of South Africa would like them to win. Not draw, not lose - a proper win.” Mapekula said the boys should stay focused and keep their eye on the prize and to stay positive. “With all of that, they have the potential to win.” Daily News