Gumede allegedly breached the Councillors’ Code Of Conduct when she arranged an ANC Youth League meeting at the city’s main auditorium in April. The DA alleged that Gumede had ordered the use of the city hall by the ANCYL at no cost to the party. This event, according to the DA, was convened to counter the growing support for the “Zuma Must Fall March” which was held at the Durban beachfront at the time. The march, convened by leaders from different religious denominations and the DA, came at a time when the country’s economy was downgraded by two ratings agencies to junk status. Sharon Hoosen, the DA eThekwini chief whip, said council speaker William Mapena had confirmed in writing that his office would investigate the allegation of misconduct and steps to be followed. “At that meeting, councillor Gumede was a guest speaker together with other ANCYL leaders. The fact that she made the booking, she contravened Sections 2 (a) and (b); Sections 6 (1), 11 (d) and Sections 12 of the councillors’ Code Of Conduct as per Schedule 1 of the Municipal Systems Act 32 of 2000. “It is for this reason that I made a formal request with the office of the Speaker to investigate and place the matter before the ethics committee for consideration,” Hoosen said. The sections prohibit councillors from using council assets for the benefit of political parties. The Daily News had seen copies of the booking request submitted by the mayor’s office asking to use the city hall. According to the booking letter, dated April 4, 2017, the main auditorium of the facility was booked to be set up “cinema style” for 1500 people to attend the April 7 meeting. A podium was also to be provided. The Daily News is in possession of the requisition letter as well as the letter approving the use of the facility for the meeting. The newspaper also has a copy of the letter signed by Mapena confirming that he would investigate the DA’s allegations. “This is proof that the mayor contravened the Councillors’ Code Of Conduct. We will ensure that this matter is fully dealt with and that the speaker applies the rule fairly and equally, regardless of political affiliation. There is one set of rules for all councillors. This includes the mayor. “She must know and understand that her position as mayor does not preclude her from respecting the rules,” said Hoosen. Mdu Nkosi, an IFP Exco member, said the Speaker had previously promised he would investigate when the matter was brought to his attention, but had avoided providing feedback since. Allowance Nkosi said councillors had a four-hour allowance to use municipal facilities for community meetings but when the meeting exceeded four hours, the councillor who made the booking would pay the penalty. “This applies to community halls and committee rooms at the city hall, and not the main auditorium. Caucuses will have to decide on what to do next and we might take this issue to the committee of whips which is chaired by the speaker himself,” Nkosi said. It is not clear how much it costs to hire the main auditorium of the city hall. Mapena confirmed that allegations of misconduct were being investigated and that he had kept Hoosen informed about the status of the matter. Mthunzi Gumede, the mayoral spokesperson, said they had had no communication from the Speaker’s office on this matter and declined to comment further. Daily News