For more than 50 years, the 10 members of the PAC had been buried in unmarked graves at Mamelodi West Cemetery, with their bodies remaining the property of the state. The remains of the men, aged between 20 and 40 at the time of their deaths, were dug up in a ceremony conducted by the Department of Justice and Constitutional Development and the National Prosecuting Authority. Lennox Mngambi Madikane was 25 when he was executed, and his family said they were overwhelmed with excitement when they received a call letting them know that their grandfather was finally going to rest with the other Madikanes. His grandson, Siyanda Madikane, said where the remains of his grandfather had been buried had been a mystery for many years. They had tried to find out where it was, but they had had no success. “We tried everything in our power to find his remains, but no one knew where he was ­buried. We are very happy today because we will soon get a chance to give him a proper, dignified burial, where he will be with his ancestors.” From what Madikane was told, his grandfather left home in the early 1950s to find work in Cape Town, where he later engaged in political activities. He was arrested in Cape Town and transferred to Kgosi Mampuru II Correctional ­Centre, where his life was ended in 1963. The last time he was seen by family members, Mngambi was in a jovial mood and, that was just before being hanged, he said. “Before he was executed, my uncle spent a week with him, and according to what I was told, he was in a jovial mood,” he said. According to Zanemvula Fatyela, his uncle, Livingstone Fatyela, was 30 when he was killed. His family was relieved to have found his remains and knew he would “sleep peacefully” after being reburied at home, among his people. He said that even though he had not got to meet his uncle physically, they were spiritually connected. Livingstone Fatyela was hanged in 1967. He said: “The family is very happy that we will be burying him at home.” Before visiting the cemetery, the families started at the gallows at Kgosi Mampuru, where they were taken through the steps of what transpired when their loved ones were executed. They later performed rituals where they collected their spirits before going to the cemetery. As the bodies were being exhumed, the families constantly spoke to their departed, saying their clan names. The Gallows Exhumation Project’s Thapelo Mokushane said the significance was that all the political prisoners who were judicially executed would be handed back to their loved ones so they could find closure - and, most importantly, to get dignified and proper burials. The remains of the men, all from the Eastern Cape, will be officially handed to their families after forensic testing. Daily News