This is according to a Unisa student living in one of Durban’s “bad buildings” that was raided by a special task team on Thursday. Sne Zulu and her four friends share a small room in a building on Bertha Mkhize (Victoria) Street, where former factories and warehouses have been illegally converted into a maze of one-room flats. “We don’t have a kitchen, and we sleep on the floor with rats and cockroaches scurrying about. Even though we try and block the bottom of the door, they still get into our rooms. We have to fetch water from outside and share a bathroom and two toilets with 30 or more people on one floor,” Zulu said. The raids exposed the shoddy living conditions in the city centre. Hoosen Moolla, head of the Inner City eThekwini Regeneration and Urban Management Programme (iTrump), said there were more than 90 buildings on his list and he urged building owners to comply with the relevant legislation. Last night, iTrump, metro police, the SAPS, municipal officials, fire and emergency services, and other city departments checked buildings for by-law infringements, illegal electricity connections, illegal immigrants and drugs. The raid got off to a dramatic start when police arrested a man with a knapsack filled with packets of dagga outside Wingfield Flats in Diakonia (St Andrews) Avenue. There, the eThekwini electricity unit found that the electricity breaker had been upgraded from 120amps to 200amps without the necessary documentation. Most of the buildings investigated had prepaid electricity and water meters for each room. Moolla said this was a sign of improvement because it prevented building owners from falling into debt with unpaid bills. Students filled up most of the four floors in partitioned rooms in a Bertha Mkhize Street building, paying R1800 per month which they cover by sharing with two or more people. Valery Shenge said the kitchen, shared by everyone, was in a terrible state. “Where can we live? We have to make do because we are studying. We invite more people to stay to bring down the expenses.” The kitchen floor was covered with ankle-deep water because of a leaking pipe. A bin filled with rotting food fed an infestation of cockroaches and rats. The owner had left huge holes, for ventilation, above the doors for rooms without windows. None of the tenants in all the raided buildings knew the owners. They only had contact with supervisors who collected the rent, but turned a deaf ear to maintenance issues. In a three-storey building on Denis Hurley (Queen) Street, tenants paid R1600 a month for a small room that could fit a double bed and a cupboard. Grace, 45, a mother of two daughters and a grandchild, said she was lucky to get a room and get off the streets. Her building was a clothing factory, with rooms for workers. She worked as a security guard before being retrenched. “We have to make it a home. I rely on grants to put food on the table and send my child to school. We have one shower and a toilet for 25 to 30 people. The place is very safe with three access gates. I have to place rat poison around the room,” Grace said. A  drug and prostitution den was also raided in Albany Grove and various checks were done by law enforcement teams. Some people were reluctant to open their doors to the police. Nine people were arrested for not having proper documentation to be in the country, while six were arrested for drug possession. Moolla said: “eThekwini is consistent and one of the best in the country in its raids and successful arrest  record. These raids save the city money because illegal water and electricity connections can be dealt with instantly. If we do not conduct these raids, the landlords and letting agents would think they have the upper hand. “There is an opportunity for people to provide residential accommodation, but the buildings must be compliant with regulations and by-laws,” Moolla said. Daily News