Over the past few years, the commission has dealt with close to 200 cases involving cartels.  Of these, 33 were reported this year and have been referred to the Competition Tribunal for adjudication. This includes the case of collusion against 17 banks that allegedly conspired in trading the US dollar and the rand, and the excessive prices of cancer drugs. At least 25 premises of cartels in the fresh produce, red meat suppliers and fire control business were raided  this year. Stuttafords Van Lines faces the highest number of charges, with 649 counts of collusive tendering for office furniture removal tenders issued by the state. Currently the commission’s cartels division’s roll of cases stands at 177 cases. Of these, 84 are prosecutions before the tribunal and the other 93 are still under investigation. At least three cases of abuse of dominance were referred to the tribunal for adjudication. This came from commissioner Tembinkosi Bonakele who opened the 11th Annual Competition Law, Economics and Policy Conference held at the Gordon Institute of Business Science in Johannesburg on Thursday. The conference concludes on Friday. Bonakele said despite the spike in the flouting of regulations by businesses, there were some improvements in the number of companies that alerted the commission of their plans to merge. The commission’s mergers and acquisitions divisions received 418 such notifications, compared with last year’s 391. He said society had also become more aware of their rights as 205 complaints were received from the public. The commission has also initiated market inquiries into public transport and the cost of mobile data. Barriers to entry had manifested themselves in market conduct or firms’ behaviour which led to abuse of dominance or cartels with the aim of excluding small competitors, he said. This came in different forms such as price discrimination in favour of large companies and regulatory barriers to restrict a number of participants through licensing. Minister of Economic Development Ebrahim Patel said black businesses and the community were at the receiving end of business malpractices such as collusion. “It stuns economic growth, prevents the entry of new players, reduces consumer choice and feeds  the growing resentment of black South Africans of the failure to recognise promises made by the Competition Act and the vision of the constitution,” said Patel. Patel added that the probe into data costs will look at a variety of things, including comparing costs of data in South Africa against other international countries. Daily News