Durban - The controversy over the eThekwini Municipality's decision to spend nearly R500 000 on carpets for the Reed Dance continued when the city's executive commitee met on Tuesday with Mayor Zandile Gumede conceding that the carpets were of bad quality. Gumede, who faced criticism from the main opposition, the DA when the expenditure was approved earlier late last month said the matter should be dealt with by the relevant department. DA councillor, Heinz de Boer, demanded confirmation on whether the office of the mayor or the city manager’s office would be investigating the procurement of the carpets for the reed dance. “There’s a councillor who was at the event who identified that the carpets were not of good quality. This might help in future where we can look perhaps at getting mattresses instead of the carpets. We want to be sure that only R190 000 was spent on these carpets and that the remaining amount is still in the municipal account. I think the issue really is the dignity of the young ladies. There needs to be an investigation to discover who exactly procured these carpets,” de Boer said. Mayor Gumede said she felt 'bad' about the deal. Addressing reporters seated in the media gallery at City Hall, Gumede said: "News people, don’t forget that we are talking about estimations here. As a mayor, I feel so bad about this but unfortunately, the issue about this matter is that it is highly politicised. I don’t have issues with people who identify problems and follow proper channels to seek answers to rectify those so but to go public and politicise the issue is not good. For that service provider to arrive late, the relevant department must deal with the matter. There’s a problem in this city where some of our colleagues furnish wrong information to our colleagues,” Gumede said. READ: Outrage grows over R500 000 wasted on carpets for maidens Initially, it was reported that R480 000 was spent on the carpets which were supposed to have made the maidens comfortable at the reed dance even. IFPs Mdu Nkosi said: “Can the municipal manager tell us the truth regarding these carpets because according to media reports the carpets cost about R200 000, and no longer R480 000. What then happened to the remainder of the amount? It has to be accounted for”. Sipho Nzuza, the municipal manager, apologised for not acknowledging letters of complaints about the carpets sent to his office by the opposition. ALSO READ: Storm over cost of Reed Dance maidens’ carpets “I have since engaged the deputy city manager (Sipho) Cele to look into the matter. There was a complaint received from Councillor (Zwakele) Mncwango where he sent me pictures to show me the quality of the carpets. I’ve also since discovered that the carpets arrived late. R190 000 was the total cost of the carpets. Whether they were the right quality, I think that has to go back to the manager who was involved in the procurement of the carpets,” Nzuza said. Daily News