This after the PEC filed a notice of intention on Wednesday to appeal against the court judgment that declared it invalid. A spokesperson for the “rebels”, Sthembiso Mshengu, said that after studying the court papers filed on Wednesday, they had instructed their team of lawyers to oppose the notice. Mshengu held an urgent press briefing in Durban on Thursday after the leaders of the aggrieved faction had heard from their lawyers that the PEC had filed the court papers. The notice to appeal deals with the September 12 Pietermaritzburg High Court judgment, which nullified the November 2015 provincial conference that elected the PEC. “The NEC has been undermined. If it has given the defendants the right to appeal, who took that decision and at which meeting? Can we at least get a formal statement (from the NEC) to say the decision has been taken in relation to KwaZulu-Natal,” Mshengu said. After the judgment, which left the PEC in disarray, the NEC instructed the provincial leadership to wait for it to take a decision on whether to appeal or not. During its special sitting last weekend, ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe said the top leaders would seek legal opinion on whether the appeal was winnable, and it was due to decide on the way forward at a meeting to be held between today and Sunday. Mshengu said although the aggrieved faction respected the right of the respondents to appeal the judgment, it was discomforting that the PEC took a decision that was contradictory to the instruction of the NEC and the national working committee (NWC). “The statement last Friday indicated that the NWC wanted legal guidance before giving the go-ahead for them to appeal. “The NWC has not convened, but the respondents have decided to act outside of the (mother body) which clearly indicates how much the respondent’s disrespect undermines the ANC NEC,” he said. The eThekwini regional secretary Bheki Ntuli, who is also a PEC member, said the court action was necessary otherwise the appeals period would have expired. “You cannot go back to court after 15 days to say you want to appeal because you were waiting for legal advice,” he said. The deadline to appeal is on Monday. ANC provincial spokesperson Mdumiseni Ntuli said the PEC filed the papers after its own senior counsel, and not that of the NEC, had advised them that the appeal was winnable. He said the PEC did not require the NEC’s permission to appeal the matter. Mantashe declined to comment on the latest court matter. Daily News