S’dumo Dlamini, Cosatu president,  told Independent Media that Gigaba made the proposal during the labour federation’s three-day central executive committee meeting in Joburg this week. “The minister said they are looking at a range of options about what to do regarding our state-owned enterprises (SOEs), including SAA. He said using pension money in the Public Investment Corporation could be one of the options.” “For us the most critical thing is to stabilise the SOEs and ensure good governance. “Cosatu has not taken a decision on whether we agree or not with the minister’s proposal. We still need to engage on that,” said Dlamini. But Dlamini’s first deputy Tyotyo James and Solly Phetoe, the deputy general secretary,  said they would not allow state pension money to be thrown at the “corrupt SAA”. They were speaking on the sidelines following a Cosatu media briefing on the outcomes of the three-day central executive committee meeting. They were also adamant that no taxpayers’ money should be used to bail out SAA. “We won’t allow that. There are management issues there. They must fix that. We will engage Malusi on that.” Bheki Ntshalintshali, Cosatu general secretary,  said: “We also received a presentation from the minister of finance on the state of the economy, including the government’s recently released Inclusive Growth Action Plan. We have agreed that  we will continue to engage the minister, including convening a bilateral to respond to some of the issues raised by him in his presentation.” The issue of an SAA bail-out using the PIC is likely to further complicate relations between government and labour. Already the SACP have called on Cosatu to join them in their bid to contest the elections in 2019. “We shall convene a bilateral meeting with the SACP on this position and other related matters that took place during the SACP  congress . Members of Cosatu have been encouraged to continue to discuss this issue of the SACP contesting elections and a decision will be taken by the 13th Cosatu national congress to be convened next year.” Cosatu second deputy president Zingiswa Losi, who was wearing a T-shirt endorsing Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa’s campaign to become the next president, said: “There is no way Cosatu will shy away in discussing SACP congress decisions.” The central executive  also decided on a nationwide strike on September 27 against corruption, state capture, and job losses. “We have already received a strike permit following our Section 77 Notice on state capture and corruption that was submitted to Nedlac ,” said Ntshalintshali. Daily News