A  group of pupils from Lee Primary School, in KwaDukuza, had visited the farm that morning when tragedy struck. Paul Herbst, IPSS spokesperson, said according to witnesses, children were taken around the dam on a raft by a guide. It was on the third time around the dam when three children fell off the raft and into the water. Two children were pulled out by the guide who dove into the water. The third child remained submerged in the water for about 10 minutes. “Despite the efforts of the witnesses who initiated CPR, and IPSS Advanced Life Support Paramedics, the child was declared dead,” said Herbst. He described the raft as “a floating wooden structure with a platform”, and that the children were not wearing life jackets. Sbongokuhle’s mother, who did not want to be named, refused to speak to the media, but said she was tired of talking about the incident. “My child died,” she said. Captain Nqobile Gwala, police spokesperson, said the cause of the drowning was unknown and an inquest docket would be opened at Umhlali police station. When the Daily News called the owners of the farm this week, they refused to comment. Mdu Nzuza, who also has three nephews at the school, said no counselling was provided to the pupils and there had not been a meeting about the matter. “I have a child and three nephews. I am not against the school or teachers. I just want counselling for the affected children, and I want assurance that our children are safe there,” said Nzuza. The school’s principal said he could not speak on behalf of the Department of Education, nor Sbongokuhle’s family. Kwazi Mthethwa, provincial Education spokesperson, said the department was “deeply saddened” by Sbongokuhle’s death. Individual Mthethwa said an individual, and not the department, was responsible for not providing life jackets. However, Vee Gani, South Durban chairperson of the KZN Parents’ Association, disagreed. He said the department could be held accountable because the child was in its care at the time. In 2014, the Western Cape Education Department published a policy on school excursions which included water-based activities. Paddy Attwell, Western Cape department spokesperson, said that excursions involving swimming, water-based activities or overnight stays must include a teacher who was qualified or had training in CPR and emergency care. “There are safety measures. For example, drivers transporting learners should have a pdp, a driver’s license and should be sober, but we do not follow them on a daily basis,” said Mthethwa. He said the department could only do so much because there was a large number of schools in the province. In turn, those entrusted with pupils were cheating the department - people were always trying to take a chance. “Each school has its own policy, which includes the protection of learners even on school trips,” We play our role. Everyone should play their role, including police, emergency services and school governing bodies.” In response to the Western Cape’s approach to school excursions, Mthethwa said the Western Cape is “only waking up now”. He said the Western Cape had a lot to learn from KZN. He said that whether it is a primary school or a high school, pupils should be accompanied by a facilitator from the school. Recent Incidents September 2017: Themba Dloti, a Michaelhouse schoolboy, died when the bus he and other pupils were travelling in overturned outside Pietermaritzburg. The pupils were on their way to a soccer match at Kearsney College.  August: A 6-year-old schoolboy, Sbongokuhle Mkhwanazi, drowned on a school trip to an animal farm. The boy fell off a raft and was underwater for at least 10 minutes.  March: Pupils Nomvula Zondi, Zanele Vibima and Siyanda Buthelezi drowned at Margate Beach during a school excursion. They had gone to play netball and soccer at another school.  March 2014: Pupils Namsile Kolisang and Anele Mkhize were killed when the school bus they were travelling in overturned in Shongweni. The bus was one of four transporting schoolchildren on a trip to uShaka Marine World.  March 2012: Ten pupils - Thabo Hlongwane, Amanda Mazibuko, Hlobisile Mbhele, Mandisa Miya, Phumelele Miya, Kwanele Mlambo, Cebo Nkosi, Nolwazi Shezi, Nontobeko Shezi and Hlengiwe Dlamini - died when the taxi they were travelling in crashed into a cow before plunging into a river in Bergville. Daily News