This came when the university briefed the higher education and training portfolio committee on its state of affairs, a year after it was plunged into trouble by the resignations of senior executives over the findings of a forensic probe. The university had, in February last year, placed six of its senior executives on special leave, and later instituted a forensic investigation into the former vice-chancellor and others. A report was released last July, but the some of the executives resigned from the institution. The findings were not made public. The suspensions and subsequent resignations left the university with acting officials, and it has yet to fill many of the positions. During the committee’s meeting, parliamentarians demanded the forensic report and wanted to know if action had been taken on its findings. Acting vice-chancellor ­Marcus Ramogale blamed the failure to act on the fact that the senior executives left the university before being charged. When asked if steps had been taken against the former employees , he said: “Those are council-driven processes. They will have to decide.” This prompted MPs, led by the DA’s Belinda Bozzoli, to ­demand that the university ­ensure action was taken. They said the inaction was a trick to let the former employees get off lightly. “There must be consequence management. Chase them and report to police if there was no proper management, or there was fraud,” said the ANC’s ­Juliana Killian. Committee chairperson Connie September said when a forensic report uncovered criminal action, institutions ought to take it to the police. The committee also heard that the university was battling to fill the vacant senior executive position - of vice-chancellor - and wanted to employ the services of a recruitment agency. Despite the university executive attempting to show how it was turning things around, the committee was not pleased. The executive was found to have usurped powers of the council and some council members sat in tender committees. “I’m deeply disappointed,” said the EFF’s Sipho Mbatha, who hails from Umlazi. Killian was equally concerned. “There is no institution that can survive instability caused by no appointment of management,” she said. The ANC’s Sibongile Mchunu said of the vacancies: “You state a reason therefore as being no suitable candidates It is as if you are keeping aside the positions for particular persons.” Daily News