“I do not mind. I joined the ANC because of the love I have for my country and its people. “If we disagree on this fundamental point of convergence, I have no business to be in that organisation because that which has bound us for 35 years has been broken,” she posted. “I shall never trade truth with a job, position, brand or anything. Whatever outcome I’ll accept with both hands and be free to exercise my constitutional right to moral conscience. Yes! I will rise. I’m ahead. The most rare, valuable asset I treasure is my moral reflective capacity of distinguishing between wrong and right. No one can take this away from me.” This came after she failed to appear before the ANC’s Provincial Disciplinary Committee on Sunday. The committee learnt that new death threats against Khoza surfaced on Saturday which led to her failing to appear. Khoza was charged in July for, among other things, ill discipline, failing to comply with ANC policy, provoking division, and bringing the party into disrepute, with all but one of these relating to posts she made on her Facebook account. She has been a vehement critic of President Jacob Zuma and his fitness to lead the ANC. Her lawyer, Smanga Sethene, who was appointed on Saturday night, arrived an hour late at the ANC provincial office at Pixley Ka-Seme House in Durban. The meeting continued behind closed doors, while the media camped outside. Security was beefed up inside the building and there were several SAPS police vehicles and Metro Police wearing bullet proof vests outside. After about two-and-a-half hours, Sethene left the building alone. He refused to speak to the media, but before driving off, he said Khoza was in the country. Threats Advocate Makhosini Nkosi, Human Settlements MEC Ravi Pillay and MPL Nomagugu Simelane Zulu comprise the disciplinary committee. Zulu is the chairperson. Speaking after the hearing, Mdumiseni Ntuli, provincial ANC spokesperson, said Sethene indicated that Khoza’s absence was due to new threats that emerged on Saturday. The committee was told Khoza was not in the province. Sethene had asked for more time to look over the matter as he was only appointed on Saturday. “In the interest of a fair disciplinary hearing, we reluctantly gave Khoza’s lawyer an extension and adjourned the matter to next Sunday (September 17),” said Ntuli. In the meantime, he said Khoza and her lawyers would have to meet the disciplinary committee and exchange documents in a pre-trial conference and clear challenges 
that may arise in the hearing. ”We are disappointed that she did not show up, and the fact that she only appointed a lawyer at 7pm on Saturday, the day before the hearing, contradicts her communication with us on July 26 when she said she was consulting with her legal representatives. She was informed two months ago about the date of the hearing,” said Ntuli. On Sunday, Khoza wrote on her Facebook page that she knew she would be fired. She had earlier written to Super Zuma, the party’s provincial secretary, and to Gwede Mantashe, the ANC secretary-general, requesting for the venue for the hearing to be changed to somewhere outside KwaZulu-Natal. She had cited fears for her life, but the request was turned down. Ntuli said the party found that Khoza’s reasons were unfounded. He said that although it was not usual practice for disciplinary committee proceedings to be regularly communicated to the public, the ANC felt it appropriate. “This is important to avert possible distortion intended to tarnish the standing of the ANC and its disciplinary processes,” said Ntuli. Khoza’s criticism of Zuma and the ANC resulted in her being removed as portfolio committee on service and administration chairperson last month. Her demotion came after the August 8 National Assembly vote, where Zuma survived yet another motion of no-confidence. She is one of the ANC MPs who had publicly indicated they would vote for Zuma to go. On Friday, Khoza said she feared being “gunned down” on her way to the disciplinary hearing. Khoza has said publicly that she has received numerous death threats because of her statements and the life of her daughter has also been threatened. KZN has seen so many politically linked killings in the past few years that Premier Willies Mchunu established the Moerane Commission of Inquiry in 2016 to probe the violence. The commission has heard testimony from numerous witnesses that the killings are linked to a desire for political positions and greed. - Additional reporting by ANA.