In the meantime, the pier structure - which was designed to be dismantled - has been partially removed to enable critical work to go on underneath. Sixty 6m-deep wells (pipes) are concealed under the pier, through which seawater, once filtered, flows into the neighbouring uShaka Sea World to keep the animals alive in the various tanks. Millions of litres of new water continuously flows through the marine park every day, before being returned to the sea, via the canal system, cleaner than when it first entered. “We clean it for the fish; in other words the pumping system acts as a sewage farm taking the fish waste out of the water. And we are also making it clearer so that the public can see the animals better,” said Tony McEwan, the director of Sea World. The seawater is pre-filtered through the 6m of sand around the underwater wells. Filtering removes biological fouling-like larvae - growing on the insides of the wells - which if not filtered, restricts the water flow into the aquarium. The size and depth of the sand also impacts on the flow of water. Now, however, the flow of water through the wells has dropped by half, because of the municipality increasing the amount of sand it has been pumping on to the beach during the past nine months, which has increased the thickness of the sand around the wells. (The Daily News asked the municipality why it was pumping more sand than previously, but no response was received at the time of publication). To increase the flow of water, the wells will be re-bedded, with the sand around them being replaced with gravel. “The process is like a sieve. With sand, there are smaller holes for the water to get through, but if you use bigger gravel there is a lot of space between the particles for the water to go through,” McEwan said. The system was designed to be re-bedded periodically, and last needed to be done in 2008, before the bar was built, he said. Warren Branigan, the moyo uShaka general manager, said closing the bar had been a “very simple” decision because the safety and health of the park’s marine life was something moyo took “extremely seriously and cared very deeply about”. The moyo main restaurant and beach bar on the land side of the pier will not be affected. While the structure was still there, the floor, stairs, kitchen, tables and chairs are gone. At the same time, about 500 tons of gravel - the same used on roads - has already starting to build up in the parking area before the re-bedding operation, which is expected to begin in the next couple of weeks. Daily News