ANC leaders from both sides confirmed that the fight took place in the Ladysmith town hall on Sunday at a meeting of the Ukhahlamba regional general council. Five people were injured. Part of the dispute was that the PEC could not facilitate the sitting of the regional conference which is expected to take place this weekend. Ukhahlamba secretary Sipho Hlomuka said the PEC had asked the region to call the leaders of 68 branches to brief them about the Pietermaritzburg High Court ruling which had found the 2015 conference which elected provincial chairman Sihle Zikalala and his PEC was unlawful. Those who had successfully challenged the conference in court are linked to former chairman Senzo Mchunu, who was unseated by Zikalala. Zikalala enjoys the support of the regional leadership. Mchunu’s supporters had opposed the conference being held this weekend while the PEC, which has the power to facilitate conferences, had not resolved the issue of its status. Hlomuka said only the chairpersons and deputies, secretaries and treasurers from 
74 branches had been invited, but instead of 370 invited delegates the hall was filled to capacity. “The uninvited people refused to leave the hall, so we moved delegates out and asked security to intervene. They refused to leave. Tear gas was used and one person was injured, although I don’t know how it happened,” he said. Former ANC regional chairman Thulani Sibeko said three women, two men and a security guard had been injured. Hlomuka said the PEC had asked the regional executive committee to call the meeting. He said the regional conference would take place on Saturday and Sunday and would be facilitated by the nullified PEC. Speaking on behalf of the anti-PEC group, Sibeko said the PEC could not oversee the sitting of the regional conference. “We were there to question how the conference is expected to go ahead while there are more than 30 unresolved disputes. On top of that is the problem of the nullified committee. ANC provincial spokesman Mdumiseni Ntuli said the PEC “can and will run any conference that is ready to take place”. “All regions are due (to hold conferences) and it will depend on which one finishes its BGMs first,” he said. Daily News