Durban - In my inaugural speech last year, I made a firm commitment to clean-up the City, to create a safe and hygienic Durban Central Business District (CBD). The recent launch of the Radical Durban CBD Clean-up and Safety Programme demonstrates that I am following through on that promise with the implementation of the Mayoral Inner City Intensive Urban Management Plan. This is a project under the overarching Inner City Regeneration Plan which aims to holistically improve the inner City. A well-maintained CBD is vital to the success of any city. Great cities are liveable communities of people where government, commerce and culture thrive. Great cities offer a variety of lifestyle and recreation, finding the unique balance between the natural and the built environment. Great cities are places where the human spirit can thrive socially, economically and culturally. Durban has aspirations to be a great city and we are taking steps towards making this a reality. Much work has already been done to clean up the inner City by hard working officials since the intervention began on 14 August. I thank them for their dedication in achieving our vision of making eThekwini Africa’s most caring and liveable City by 2030. All operational departments dedicated four hours daily for three weeks to jointly clean and make the City safe and attractive to all. Furthermore, all security clusters have worked tirelessly to ensure that cleaned areas are sustained until the City appoints a dedicated team to take full responsibility of CBD urban management. The official launch of the radical CBD clean-up and safety programme was on 15 September, where the plan to rejuvenate the inner City was officially unveiled to stakeholders, including business. Improving the CBD is of vital importance as it will attract further investment to the City and create more employment. We have availed additional resources to sustain the Radical Durban CBD Clean-up and Safety Programme and other initiatives to improve the inner City over the next three years. The programme aims to address cleanliness and safety related issues which includes crime and grime, illegal trading and derelict buildings. Since the first phase was implemented, the programme has already started to show a remarkable impact in ensuring safety and cleanliness around the CBD. City officials have cut verges, cleared illegal posters and tackled illegal dumping and littering. The team successfully maintained law and order in the CBD by enforcing City by-laws and acting firmly against illegal businesses and traders. The team also confiscated expired permits, issued spot fines and arrested criminals. The allocated budget will ensure the sustainability of the project and includes appointing consultants to support the implementation, appointing 200 additional Metro Police officers and vehicles, employing security personnel to patrol the CBD throughout the day and ensuring dedicated legal resources. There will also be the procurement of 10 patrol vans, eight motorcycles and four unmarked police vehicles and the repairing of Closed-Circuit television surveillance facilities to further ensure the programme is a success. We are also going to recruit 171 waste management general workers, upgrade public and urban realms, construct dignified trading stalls for informal trade, activate open spaces and ensure constant collection of garbage in illegal dumping hotspots. To further ensure that the programme is inclusive, the City will establish partnerships with residents, the private sector and non-governmental organisations to collectively practise management of waste such as reducing, reusing and recycling. During the first week of the programme, calls were logged on faulty services which were repaired. These include street lights, ablution facilities, parking meters, cameras and potholes. Phase two of the programme will include: a plan to reclaim dysfunctional buildings by effecting aggressive enforcement towards illegal land uses and derelict buildings to minimise filth and disorder in the CBD. We will also focus on the rationalisation of informal trade in line with principles of the overall Inner City Regeneration Plan. Illegal posters being scraped off robots and concrete poles (above) and empty crates that block pedestrian walkways in the Durban Central Business District (CBD) being removed (below) as part of the Radical Durban CBD Clean-up and Safety Programme. Daily News