Durban - Mxoleleni Hopeson Bhani was the first to be convicted for a Glebelands Hostel-related murder since the spate of violent deaths began in uMlazi. The killings had led to visits to the area by the former public protector, Thuli Madonsela, Police Minister Fikile Mbalula and Community Safety and Liaison MEC Mxolisi Kaunda. There have been more than 90 murders at the notorious hostel and a task team was established in 2015 to investigate whether the killings were linked to the selling of beds. On Friday, Bhani, 29, who had been in custody awaiting trial for two years, was sentenced to life for the murder of Sipho Ndovela, a Glebelands resident and taxi rank manager at the hostel. He was killed at the uMlazi Magistrate’s Court on May 18, 2015. Ndovela was the only witness to a murder that took place at the hostel in February 2015. It was alleged he was murdered to eliminate him as a witness. Acting Judge Fazal Abraham also sentenced Bhani to 12 years for the attempted murder of another Glebelands resident. The resident has been placed in a witness protection programme and cannot be named. The 12-year sentence is to run concurrently with the life sentence. Bhani had tried to convince the court that his link to the murder and attempted murder was a plot to remove him from the hostel because he campaigned against the selling of beds. Last week, the judge found this to be a lie and said State advocate Kelvin Singh had proved Bhani’s guilt beyond reasonable doubt. On Friday, the judge said the biggest test after Bhani’s conviction was whether the sentence would end the killings at the hostel, as hoped by the State. Detective Warrant Officer Vusumuzi Madonsela, one of the investigating officers, testified in aggravation of sentence that the task team was failing to achieve successful convictions, despite arrests. “Willing witnesses disappeared before the case could go to court. We ended up with nothing to base evidence on. For example, (Bhani) was not the only suspect. There were others with him during the two incidents, but charges against them were withdrawn after witnesses disappeared,” said Madonsela. He said after Ndovela’s murder, the charges in the case in which he was a witness were withdrawn. Bhani’s lawyer, senior advocate Winston Maqutu, however, reasoned with the court saying that Bhani’s background of poverty forced him to become a hostel resident at the age of 20. He argued that Bhani was exposed to the difficult hostel life, where crime was prevalent. Asked what stopped Bhani from leaving the hostel for nine years, Maqutu used the example of “people being trapped in soul-destroying jobs every day”. “He (Bhani), too, was trapped at the hostel. However, he managed to get an education. He could be rehabilitated, but I am afraid sentencing him to life in prison will not serve any purpose if the core cause of crime at Glebelands Hostel is not addressed,” said Maqutu. Evidence Singh disagreed, saying the evidence that Bhani was not doing well academically was an indication he was more interested in his criminal activities. Singh requested life imprisonment to encourage witnesses to work with the police. When handing down sentence, Abraham said after considering Bhani’s personal circumstances, his age and that he had four children he still felt the minimum sentence of life imprisonment was appropriate. He said a poor background was no excuse for the serious crime committed, and Bhani had showed no remorse. “There is nothing before the court about the situation of his children since his arrest. There is a difference between a biological father and being a parent. He conducted himself with disrespect for human life.” Abraham said Bhani had undermined the court and what it stood for by shooting Ndovela on court premises. “People, witnesses and even suspects should not be made to feel endangered when visiting courts,” said Abraham. Provincial police commissioner Major-General Bheki Langa said the sentence instilled confidence that other cases in court would bear similar results. Mbalula said it was unfair for communities to blame the police for no convictions in the Glebelands killings because the same communities were harbouring “criminals”. “In the Glebelands matter, we appreciate the conviction but people must realise that Sipho Ndovela’s death was not taken lightly by the law enforcement agencies,” he said. Mbalula said they were aware that there was corruption in the police service, but that did not make the entire police service corrupt. “Give us space to do our job. We will show the criminals that we are serious about fighting crime,” Mbalula said. Vanessa Burger, who has advocated for peace since the Glebeland murders began in 2014, said the conviction proved what could be done to reduce the blood flow at the hostel. “The community is continually urged to co-operate with the police, but this record-breaking conviction shows what can be accomplished when the police co-operate with the community. “We also salute the witnesses and others who worked hard and sacrificed their lives for justice. “Their bravery brings hope and some degree of solace to the traumatised families.” Solo Mdledle, secretary of the Moerane Commission of Inquiry into the political killings in KZN, said they could not comment on the judgment as this would only form part of their report as a commission. Mary de Haas, KZN violence monitor, said the conviction was very good news and congratulated the detectives who did “the excellent” work. Daily News