Durban - The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Health has confirmed an outbreak of measles in the province. According to officials, there were 23 confirmed cases of  measles and five cases of suspected measles. The eThekwini Municipality has the highest number of cases of measles, with 14 confirmed and three suspected cases. Other districts with measles cases are Umgungundlovu (6 confirmed cases), Ilembe (2 confirmed cases), uThukela (1 confirmed case and 1 suspected case) and King Cetshwayo (no confirmed case and just 1 suspected case). In a bid to reduce the spread of measles and other communicable diseases in KZN, the Health Department has urged parents to ensure that all of their children have a complete vaccination schedule, following the diagnosis of a few measles cases. Most of the cases of measles were diagnosed among a particular community and are being traced in order to offer the measles vaccination irrespective of age. The confirmed cases of measles are people between the ages of nine-months-old and 51-years-old. Measles are common in children but old people who did not receive the measles vaccine can also be affected. “Children are vaccinated against measles as part of the Expanded Programme on Immunization (SA-EPI) schedule at 6 months of age and again receive a booster at 12 months. At least 95% of people get protected from measles after the two doses,” said Samkelisiwe Khumalo, Communications Practitioner in the Department of Health in KZN. Khumalo said vaccination is the most effective way of preventing measles and other opportunistic diseases that might affect growth development in children. “The Department would like to once again encourage people in the affected communities to take advantage of the vaccination that is offered in public health institutions. This should be done urgently in order to avoid any further transmission of the virus,” Khumalo said. Measles is a viral infection that spreads from person to person through saliva by coughing, sneezing or being in close contact with an infected person. Some of the symptoms include fever, rash and flu-like symptoms. Most people fully recover from measles but complications are unpredictable. Complications can include pneumonia, diarrhoea, dehydration, blindness, brain infection or death. “The Department will continue to liaise with the affected communities to communicate all measles response activities which need to be implemented. The Department would like to reiterate that people should be aware of symptoms of measles so that they can seek help early and be vaccinated to prevent infection and spreading measles to other people,” concluded Khumalo. Daily News