Health Minister Dr Aaron Motsoaledi assured the committee that urgent intervention by the National Department of Health would be enforced. He proposed a task team be established to oversee the improvement of oncology services in KZN. Motsoaledi told the MPs his department would receive the results of a forensic audit into the reasons why two radiotherapy machines at Addington Hospital broke down and were never fixed, leading to the deaths of hundreds, if not thousands, of cancer patients. “I’m happy to announce that the national deputy director-general of corporate services has just received an invitation from KwaZulu-Natal Treasury. They are going to release the results of this forensic audit, which will explain what happened that led to the collapse of the equipment in terms of maintenance,” he said. Last night, Motsoaledi told the Daily News he would not rest until he received answers as to why no one had been arrested in connection with the procurement of these machines. “We are told by the KZN department that the matter was investigated by Treasury and handed over to the Hawks. We expected people to be arrested, because it’s unquestionable that white collar crime was committed here. That’s what I told the committee, because they have the power to summon any government agency. For now, we are waiting for the report from KZN,” Motsoaledi said. The forensic audit was instituted after the SA Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) made several findings, including that Health MEC DrSibongiseni Dhlomo and his department “violated the rights of oncology patients at Addington and Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central hospitals to have access to health care services as a result of their failure to comply with applicable norms and standards set out in legislation and policies”. The SAHRC demanded that, among other things, the machines be immediately repaired. Dhlomo told the committee that Varian, the manufacturers of the machines, had since completed an assessment and given his department two options. The first was to repair and upgrade software on both machines and sign a five-year service maintenance contract. However, another option was agreed on - that one of the machines, which required less work, be repaired, and another machine with better technology be procured. “To procure a new machine would be more cost-effective,” said Dhlomo. The crisis was precipitated after the department’s refusal to pay TecMed, which supplied the machines, because of the questionable manner in which they were procured in 2009. This led to Addington’s cancer patients having to use Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital, which excessively increased the waiting time for treatment. The DA has called for Dhlomo’s dismissal. DA national Health spokesperson Patricia Kopane told the Daily News that Motsoaledi’s gesture was “too little, too late”. She said it was Dhlomo’s responsibility to ensure that hospitals under his supervision had the necessary skilled human resources to operate lifesaving machinery. “There must be justice for those who lost their lives. And the DA demands that heads must roll for this crisis, as it’s abundantly clear that the MEC (Dhlomo) failed cancer patients in KZN due to his gross mismanagement. “I expected him to display humility, stand there, explain and apologise for the lives lost and pain suffered by KZN cancer patients. Instead, it was the minister who had the courage to give the explanation,” Kopane said. - Additional reporting by ANA