Durban - Sibongiseni Dhlomo, KwaZulu-Natal health MEC has hailed the management of Ekuhlengeni Psychiatric Hospital for their innovative idea of teaching their mental healthcare patients skills to fix wheelchairs. The hospital based in KwaMakhutha was opened in January 1975, with 652 beds and provides care for Mental Health Care Users (MHCU’s) suffering from chronic mental illnesses. It caters for patients who cannot live in the community due to the stigma of mental illness; abuse and rejection by their families or because of the inability by their families to cope with their status. Marilyn Hooblaul, Chief Physiotherapist in the hospital, said when she began working at Ekuhlengeni Psychiatric Hospital in 2011, she and her team performed a situation analysis on the wheelchairs that they had in the hospital. “We found that there were 47 wheelchairs in the institution. Most of them were damaged and unused but there were parts that could be replaced. Previously wheelchairs were condemned and new wheelchairs were procured. We then decided that repairing the wheelchairs could be an option and agreed that it could be done by our own Mental Health Care Users,” Hooblaul said. She said that there was no other institution to benchmark from and therefore got in touch with a wheelchair company to teach them as physiotherapies and some of the MHCU how to repair wheelchairs. They were lucky that the company also contributed with the tools and consumables needed. The project has been running for four years and has seen more than 80 wheelchairs being repaired and in the process, has saved the hospital R155 393,29. Dhlomo said he is happy that the project got attention from the Premier who in recent Premier’s Awards bestowed the hospital with a Silver Award for innovation. He also said involving MHCU’s has reduced incidents within the hospital. “Beside it being a cost cutting measure, this project is immensely contributing in the mental health care patients’ psycho-social rehabilitation. It also cuts away hours of boredom, restlessness and aggression whilst providing patients with information and interesting new problem solving skills,” Dhlomo said. Dhlomo continued by saying, “Even though this innovative project can be replicated to other psychiatric hospitals, we first want to develop this initial one to the level of being a centre of excellence where all broken and malfunctioning wheelchairs collected all over the Province would be brought here for fixing. We will support Ekuhlengeni Psychiatric Hospital with resources to grow this project.” Daily News