It is followed by Johannesburg, Newcastle and Durban. According to the SA Diaries, crime in Pietermaritzburg has increased at a fast pace. People were being robbed and attacked in their numbers. In Johannesburg, the crime situation was largely because of the high population. The crime index in Newcastle was lower than that of Johannesburg. With regards to Bloemfontein, the report said bribery, corruption, theft, robbery, murder and other violent crimes were common. Pretoria has moved from being one of the most dangerous cities in the country last year to being ranked fifth on the list of the top 10 dangerous cities to live in in South Africa, 
according to the report, based on the research of non-official organisations across the country. Benoni is sixth, Boksburg seventh, followed by Cape Town, Bloemfontein, and Port Elizabeth in 10th place. Lieutenant Kay Makhubela, Tshwane police spokesperson, said he was pleased with the capital city’s ranking and attributed the decrease to various practices. He noted that police visibility in the city had increased. “We are clamping down on criminals. We are everywhere, more especially because the festive season is approaching and this is when crime peaks.” Makhubela said the police had raided a significant number of drug dens, scrapyards and places of criminal activity in the past months. He also hailed CCTV surveillance across the city, which helped identify criminals and their illicit behaviour. Makhubela highly commended the partnership between the police and local communities, saying it was one of the winning factors that brought down crime. He said communities were highly involved in providing police with crucial information about criminal activities. “Sometimes all we need is people on the ground to provide us with information, which leads to huge arrests. Intelligence is not necessarily well-equipped detectives, but normal community members who have insight into criminal activities,” said Makhubela. He urged communities to continue keeping a united front against criminals through partnerships like Community Police Forums. Makhubela said the underlying societal issues had to be addressed to effectively turn the tide against crime. This, he said, could only be done through solid partnerships among all members 
of society, including the 
government, business and NGOs.  Most dangerous areas in SA Pietermaritzburg Johannesburg Newcastle Durban Pretoria Benoni Boksburg Cape Town Bloemfontein Port Elizabeth Daily News