Durban- Swift action was key to making sure police officers who demanded bribes were dealt with, said eThekwini metro police spokesperson Tarboo Sewpersad.
He said the public should gather as much evidence as possible. This comes after it was reported that one of South Africa’s top surgeons, Susan Vosloo, was allegedly forced to pay a bribe of R100 to metro police officers last week after they allegedly threatened her and told her she would spend the weekend in jail after accusing her of driving under the influence of alcohol. Vosloo alleged she had not been drinking. The Daily News contacted Vosloo, but she declined to comment. The incident was confirmed by Steve Middleton, acting head of the metro police. He said he had received e-mails and two affidavits relating to the matter. “I am aware that the South African police and the metro police are investigating the matter. So, yes, we are taking it very seriously,” he said. Sewpersad said people who were allegedly forced to pay a bribe should try to take pictures of the serial numbers of the banknotes they give the police. They should also try to take down the vehicle registration of the officer concerned. Quick action was important because this could be used as evidence in disciplinary hearings against the offending officers. Sewpersad said if a complaint was made promptly then the investigating officer could quickly check the alleged offending officer’s body or vehicle for the money taken. Another important factor was to make oneself available during the disciplinary process. “It is a major problem,” Sewpersad said, of people not being available. Although he could not say how many officers were facing charges of bribery, he said offending policemen could face anything up to eight sanctions, which range from suspension to being fired. He said he was preparing a website where people could make complaints about metro police. In 2015 two metro police officers were arrested for soliciting bribes. This came after a sting operation was conducted against the officers. In 2012, a constable was arrested by metro police after he demanded a bribe of R5000 to have a member get a driver’s licence without being tested. Daily News