Durban - As Gale force winds and rain wreaked havoc in Durban on Saturday, for evicted Howell Road residents living on the street, the weather added to their misery as their valuable possessions were drenched, some damaged beyond repair.
Residents were last month evicted from their homes, low-cost housing units in Sydenham, because of an ongoing issue with housing agents, First Metro Housing. The Daily News has been reporting on the evictions and protests. One of the affected residents was Philile Mthembu. The mother of six said she was battling to keep her belongings dry. Mthembu, living in a makeshift tent outside her home, was filled with fear when the winds and rain hit. “I had to fight all night to make sure the tent did not collapse,” she said. Mthembu said the fridge and microwave were drenched and had become useless. Her husband, Sipho Mthembu, was at work. She said her children were supposed to be back at school today, but their uniforms were drenched. “I am emotionally hurt,” Mthembu said. They had no local relatives to turn to because their closest family lived in Empangeni, more than 160km away. Sipho said when he got back from work he tried to salvage some of their possessions. Popo Zungu, chairperson of the Howell Road committee, said he was up most of Saturday night trying to find accommodation for people who were living outside. “It rained last weekend, but this weekend it was very bad,” Zungu said. “Women whose stuff was outside, were crying. I can tell you that the wet furniture won’t be used again,” he said. Zungu was concerned that the rainy season was starting and people were still living outside. Tensions were also rising among the residents because some had become weary of living with their destitute neighbours, whom they took in. Zungu said houses were small and everyone was living in cramped conditions. The eThekwini Municipality yesterday released a statement that it would provide assistance to people severely affected by the inclement weather. Mthunzi Gumede, spokesperson for mayor Zandile Gumede, said a response team consisting of all departments was on the ground. He said mop-up operations had already begun and people were being accommodated in community halls. Food, soup and blankets had been provided to those affected, he said. The mayor also appealed to religious organisations to open up their homes to those who had been displaced by the weather. “I want to appeal to residents to be patient as we are responding to each and every case that has been reported thus far,” Zandile Gumede said. With more bad weather expected, she told those who lived in flood-prone areas to be cautious and move to the nearest community halls. Daily News