According to a neighbour, John Michael Aberdeen, 
who testified during the trial, Dorr had worked as a mechanical and electronic engineer 
and lived for his two dogs and cats. Aberdeen described Dorr as a lonely man. He was murdered on June 18, 2015. His neighbours had suspected something was wrong when his pets wandered around the yard for days without him. His decomposing body 
was found at the back of the house, buried under grass and debris. Dorr’s killer, 23-year-old Nkululeko Mofokeng, was found guilty of murder, housebreaking with intent to rob and robbery with aggravating circumstances. Mofokeng sat motionless in the dock on Monday. His mother, who sat alone 
in the public gallery, had left 
the courtroom by the time 
Judge Mokgere Masipa concluded her judgment in the afternoon. There was no one to represent Dorr’s family and nor were Moseley Park residents in court. The police had tracked down Dorr’s family in Germany and informed them about his murder and also about his house, which has remained vacant since his death, but the family wanted nothing to do with him or his property. According to the State, on the day of the incident, Mofokeng and his accomplice requested a lift from a motorist in Pinetown and told him they were coming from the white suburb where they had gone to “hustle”. The witness had testified that they were carrying a big bag. The motorist said he pretended to be interested in some of the items in the bag and stopped at a petrol station where he called the police. Police searched them and among the items found were two cellphones, which turned out to have belonged to Dorr. The State argued that Mofokeng had led the police to 
the house and on arrival confessed to Dorr’s murder. He showed the police the body, which was hidden under cut grass and debris at the back of the house. Mofokeng was the only accused in the murder, although fingerprints found at the scene indicated there had been an accomplice. Mofokeng was linked to 
the killing by DNA found on a glove at the scene and blood splatter found on a piece of newspaper. The police officers who were at the scene during the pointing-out testified Mofokeng had been remorseful and told them he wanted to tell the truth and showed them the body. Results of the post-mortem indicated Dorr died as a result of a penetrating injury to the left lung. Mofokeng said he had not been in a good state of mind when he did the pointing-out and that he had police dog-bite wounds. Mofokeng had pleaded not guilty and had chosen to remain silent throughout the trial. He had no witnesses for his defence, which was something Masipa said left the court with no choice but to take the evidence brought by the State. “You chose to remain silent. This court is therefore not in a position to speculate about your state of mind and pain at the time of the pointing-out,” said Masipa. The judge said she found the witnesses to be truthful. “The witnesses had one thing clear: that they wanted to tell the truth,” she said. Daily News