Two Daily News correspondents this week added their voices to growing concerns over what the UN said was “ethnic cleansing” of the Rohingya Muslims that has in recent days seen 400000 people flee to Bangladesh Narendh Ganesh, a former eThekwini councillor, and Saber Ahmed Jazbhay wrote an open letter to the Department of International Relations and Co-operation (Dirco), urging for the ambassador of Myanmar to be expelled. They argue that it will show South Africa does not, and will not, tolerate the wanton killing of innocent and hapless people, in the name of ethnicity and religious intolerance. Trouble in Rakhine state, Myanmar, began last month when militants allegedly attacked government forces. Security forces allegedly launched a clearance operation forcing the minority Rohingya to flee their homes to seek refuge in neighbouring countries. This created a massive humanitarian crisis. “The human catastrophe occurring on the Asian continent is an indubitable catalyst to spur the South African nation into action. Mere imprecation of the human disaster is futile. Evil still lurks within some people all over the world,” Ganesh and Jazbhay said. Clayson Monyela, spokesperson for Dirco said the South African government had appealed to Myanmar to allow security and humanitarian agencies access to affected communities in need of assistance. “South Africa expresses its deep concern and urges all parties to halt the violence in order to avoid further human suffering,” Monyela said. “We have faith that the government of Myanmar will continue its process of democratisation and political reform in order to deliver sustainable development, stability and to contribute to national reconciliation,” he said. Ganesh and Jazbhay said Myanmar beseeched South African involvement and intervention as a country, as South Africa had once beseeched the world for its intervention and support in our woes. “Our little part, as a caring nation, can halt the horrific events in Myanmar,” they said. Daily News