Durban - Lorenzo Sauls sat at the side of Austerville Drive while his mother joined the large crowd of parents protesting outside his school. It has been 11 days since he was last in class.
The Grade 4 Assegai Primary School pupil said he was tired of sitting at home and wanted to go back to learning and seeing his friends. Another pupil, Utah Augustine, also said he wanted the matter to be resolved so he could go back to school. He has been keeping up with school work and has his books at home. The two boys are among the more than 1200 pupils who have been affected by ongoing protests at the Wentworth school. For more than two months the school’s governing body has been locked in a war of words with the Department of Education over the selection of the new principal, Thenjiwe Ndlovu. School governing body (SGB) chairperson Andre de Bruin said they had been left with an issue brought on by the former SGB members. Those members have since resigned. On Thursday morning, a pile of debris lay burning on Austerville Drive while parents and community members sang songs outside the school. Some stood on the road, refusing to allow traffic to pass through. Police were deployed to the area and there was a brief stand-off with residents.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The protest outside Assegai Primary School in Wentworth on Thursday. Video: Thobeka Ngema Wentworth ward councillor Aubrey Snyman arrived and managed to get the residents to stand at the sides of the road. Sheradine Sauls, a parent, said she believed that the department was not taking the matter seriously. “The children are still not in school. If they had come and addressed the parents when this was first brought up in July, this would not have gone this far. We want our children back in school. We want learning to resume.” Sauls said all the parents wanted was for the department to show them how they arrived at their choice for principal. “They said they were going to investigate and we want to know the outcome of that investigation,” she said. Parents are backing Odette Abrahams Field for the post. She took on the acting principal’s position two years ago and was the deputy principal for 24 years and head of department for 10 years. She took over from Trevor Webster, who was.principal for more than 25 years. On being told that an official from the department would address the crowd, parents waited for almost four hours and then left. The official did not arrive. A source said residents were infuriated and vowed to continue protesting until their grievances were heard. Meanwhile, through their legal representative, the school has submitted a notice of intent to appeal against the decision taken by the Education Department’s head to appoint Ndlovu. Department spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa said they were working with the school to find a lasting solution. “The Department of Education in KwaZulu-Natal is going to ensure that the process of teaching and learning continues smoothly in Assegai,” he said. Daily News