Linton Rensburg, spokesperson for Working On Fire, a division of the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, on Monday said the assumption was that the impact of climate change was likely to result in further disaster fires. “There is an urgent imperative to improve mitigating measures and response mechanisms, including resources available, to manage such fire disasters,” he said. Nompilo Zondi, a department communications officer, said for the recent fire period, more than 5 000 firefighters stationed at bases countrywide fought wildfires across SA. “As such, Working On Fire represents the largest wild land fire-fighting resource in the country. Its ability to mobilise across provinces has become even more crucial in the context of climate change and the resultant escalation in the risk of disaster fires,” said Zondi. She said this was except for the Western Cape, which experienced fires in summer. “Because of the drought, coupled with high temperatures, we’ve had unusual fire activities and our firefighters remain on high alert,” she said. Rensburg said the firefighters, stationed at 200 bases across the country, had fought 1275 fires this year alone. “They limited the damage of land burnt to 286000ha. For the same period last year, our teams fought 570 fires with 108000ha of burnt land. Between July and August alone, our teams fought 900 fires.” Vryheid experienced one of the worst fires in recent history this August. Steven Hibbert, a fire protection officer at the KwaZulu-Natal Fire Protection Association, said the fire burnt for a day and caused damage to more than 16000ha of land. “Two people lost their lives  and 20 cows, 20 sheep and 12 ostriches died. There was also damage to cars and houses. We have not yet concluded the investigation into the cause of the fire. However the flames were fanned by gusty winds,” said Hibbert. Rensburg said the value of fire awareness and fire-safe preparation around dwellings could not be overemphasised. “Through the Working on Fire programme, we create fire awareness initiatives in schools and communities. The workshops have reached more than two million people over the past five years. “We also urge people to watch the daily Fire Danger Index warnings issued by the SA Weather Service,” he said. Daily News