Speaking to Independent Media in KwaDukuza, Niehaus said the ANC had the task of conducting “the coming elections as a contestation, rather than a battle”. He said the ANC leaders should acknowledge that in the party, like in any democracy, there would be contestations, “but it must be among comrades”. “The big challenge that we have is that once the contestation is over in December, everyone, including those candidates who stood but lost, must accept the outcome of the democratic process, and must accept the new leader and fall behind the new leader. “So what we are expecting now is to conduct our election campaigns in such a manner that we do not cause harm and we do not cause disunity in the organisation,” he said. Niehaus is a member of the MKMVA’s national executive committee that backs Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma as presidential candidate. He accompanied her to the grave of former ANC president Chief Albert Luthuli, where Dlamini Zuma prayed for a successful campaign as party presidential candidate. The ANC NEC has opened the contest for positions, and Dlamini Zuma and her challengers, including deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa, are expected to speak openly about their campaign. The party conference takes place in Nasrec, Johannesburg in December. Niehaus said he was certain that Dlamini Zuma would emerge the party president. “She is the most competent candidate and she is also a ­candidate with a long history in the ANC and unsurpassed record of dedication from her youth up to this very moment. “She dedicated her whole life to the ANC,” he said. He said Dlamini Zuma was following her African culture by asking for the blessings of the ANC forefather, Chief Luthuli. “It was very significant that we came to Chief Albert Luthuli’s grave to pay respect, because Chief Luthuli is the personification of what the ANC truly stands for in terms of its commitment to the people, and in terms of unity,” said Niehaus. He said he was touched when he saw Dlamini Zuma paying respect to Chief Luthuli. “This is an indication of her own history and her 
commitment to the struggle,” he said. He said Dlamini Zuma had the best capacity to unite the ANC after the conference. “You must remember in Polokwane she was part of the group that stood with president Thabo Mbeki, but when she lost, she immediately fell in behind the then newly elected President Jacob Zuma. “She would be disciplined, either in victory or in defeat,” said Niehaus. Addressing hundreds of her supporters, Dlamini Zuma also pledged to remain in the ANC despite the outcome of the leadership race. “We will all support whoever wins. Even if we are defeated, we will still be ANC members. “I am saying this because I practise it, and I am not theorising,” she said. She said if she was defeated she would work for the ANC just as much as if she had won. “The ANC is for the people, and not yours. “The ANC is bigger than all of us, individually and collectively. If you are not prepared to support the winner, don’t contest, and if you are not prepared to accommodate to losers, don’t contest,” she said. Daily News