A group of men watched over the fire while the women rushed around to get supper ready. Despite the bleak circumstances, the men cracked jokes and laughter rang out into the night sky. For almost three weeks, similar scenes played out every night for the 60 families who have had to seek shelter with neighbours after they were evicted from their homes last month. The glow of the fire cast a shadow on the estate just metres away where the homes of the evicted residents stand empty, bolted and guarded. The evictions resulted from ongoing issues with First Metro, the housing company contracted to build the low-cost units for the municipality. Speaking to the Daily News, residents claimed they moved into the homes on the promise that after five years of paying rent, they would own the houses. However, for many, the five-year period has passed and they are still without homes. Last week, one of the complex’s oldest residents died after being hospitalised soon after the evictions. Mary King, 88, was the mother of Noleen Goldstone, who was part of the Howell Road Estate Residents’ Committee. King had been at home when the Red Ants kicked down the door. She suffered from dementia and anxiety. Leonard Adams has been living at the estate for 11 years with his wife and two children, aged 16 and 21. “We were evicted two weeks ago. My stuff was taken out of my house and left outside. I thank God for my neighbours who rushed to take my things. I bath and use the toilet at my neighbour’s house. “Fortunately, my daughter schools in Wentworth so she has not been affected. We are having to seek shelter with our neighbours who have opened their homes to us,” said Adams. He said the ordeal was traumatic for his family and he felt stripped of his dignity as a father who was supposed to provide for his family. “We are taught that a man is supposed to take care of and protect his family, but here we are having to seek shelter from others and our stuff is left on the street. “The women and children left so they can be safe elsewhere, while the men stayed behind to look after the furniture. “I have to go to bed every night with this on my mind,” he said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Eviction trauma of Howell Road families. Video: Thobeka Ngema Adams said he paid rent diligently and after five years of moving in, he stopped receiving his bills. “I stopped paying because I did not get the invoices. Then I received a phone call saying I was in arrears,” he said. Elizabeth Tarin Bowden, a mother and grandmother, was also evicted. She said she found it difficult to explain to her 10-year-old grandchild why her toy box was lying outside when she came home from school. “I am a widow and my daughter came to live with me with her husband and daughter after experiencing personal issues. I was told that I qualified to live in my house here. I was also told signing the lease was just a formality,” Bowden said. “It was humiliating for my granddaughter, she was the only one of her friends being evicted. She asked me why our stuff was thrown out and I had to explain that we were being kicked out of our homes,” she said. Bowden said she could soon find herself out of a job because she had not been to work since. Mother of five Elizabeth Martin said she had been sleeping in her car since being evicted. Martin said she was shocked to find her stuff on the road. “I grabbed blankets and slept with my kids in the car. The younger ones got sick and I had to send them to my sister in Newlands. “My furniture is still outside and I am barely sleeping. We have to keep checking on our stuff on the road,” she said. The Red Ants, a private security company hired by the eThekwini Municipality to carry out evictions, has been guarding the homes. Residents also felt let down by eThekwini mayor Zandile Gumede who promised to find a solution to the crisis and then had to leave on an overseas trip last week. Meanwhile, residents are having to find a place to lay their heads at night. Desmond D’Sa, of the South Durban Community Environmental Alliance, has stepped in to assist the evicted families in compiling their statements for their upcoming court appearance. Daily News