MPs on Tuesday called on the top brass of the police to jack up their systems and improve their conviction rates. They were appearing before the portfolio committee on police in Parliament where they were questioned on fighting crime and settling the claims for the Marikana victims. Munzoor Shaik Emam  of the National Freedom Party said he was shocked by the low conviction rate, which did not augur well for the police and that more needed to be done by detectives to improve their conviction rates. Emam also said many officers had not been promoted for many years, staying in the same rank despite their experience in the SAPS. Zakhele Mbhele of the DA also questioned the high number of officers with criminal records. It raised questions about how the police have ended up with 1400 officers having criminal records, Mbhele said. “If we have systems in place, how do we end up with the former acting head of crime intelligence Richard Mdluli still on suspension six years later? How do we end up with 1400 members with criminal records?” Mbhele asked. Angie Molebatsi of the ANC said there must be progress in the payment of claims to the victims of Marikana. She said this had been dragging on and had to be resolved soon. Head of human resources in the police Lieutenant-General Bonang Mgwenya said they were working hard to improve their conviction rates. She said the problem could lie with the prosecution of the cases because they do arrest criminals. But Mgwenya admitted that they had a backlog of 60000 promotions. The police would not be able to effect these promotions because of a lack of money and it would cost them a lot of cash. She told MPs that in the current financial year they will promote only 5000 officers. Lieutenant-General Sally Khan of the SAPS legal services said they were in the process of finalising the R1billion claims for the victims of Marikana. One family had been paid R3million and another R29m was offered to the families of the miners who died in Marikana. Daily New