He will be sentenced on Friday. Ndovela was a witness in a murder trial taking place at the uMlazi Magistrate’s Court on May 18. He was shot dead while walking towards the court’s exit. Bhani also faced a charge of attempted murder of another Glebelands resident, who had witnessed Ndovela’s shooting. According to the indictment Bhani and two other assailants plotted to kill Ndovela, who was the single witness to a murder that took place at the hostel. The State alleged that he later tried to murder a witness to Ndovela’s shooting in his room at the hostel on June 11, 2015. The victim and another witness to Ndovela’s shooting, who cannot be named to protect their identities, testified in camera that they had clear chances respectively on both incidents to see Bhani’s face and were able to point him out at identification parades. High Court Acting Judge Fazal Abraham said the court found that the State’s evidence proved beyond reasonable doubt that Bhani’s alibi was not truthful and collaborative with the post-mortem and ballistic evidence of both the crime scenes. Discretion He said Bhani was guilty as charged in the indictment on both counts of murder and attempted murder. Abraham said although the witnesses were single witnesses in the incidents respectively, the court had the discretion to convict the accused provided that their evidence was straight-forward and truthful. “The court found nothing wrong with the evidence of the witnesses. “Although they were single witnesses, their evidence was clear and truthful,” he said. Abraham said the witness to the court shooting was not looking at blaming anyone and although he had not described the shooter’s physical characteristics in his police statement and had only made a more detailed description in court, the witness had pointed Bhani out at the identification parade. The victim in the attempted murder charge testified that he was shot at and a bullet struck him on his elbow and another struck his front door. He ran for his bush knife in the bedroom. He said he had had a chance to see his attacker’s face when the attacker removed his hoodie and came face to face with him. Regarding the question as to why an attacker would remove the hoodie for his intended victim to see his face, Abraham said the only explanation for that could have been that the attacker was armed with a firearm and was confident that he was going to shoot and kill the victim who was armed with a bush knife. Bullet Abraham said the evidence that the witness had dodged a bullet which hit his door tied in with the State’s ballistic reports, that the cartridges found at both scenes of crimes were from the same gun. Bhani had chosen to remain silent about his whereabouts on the day of the incident for months after his arrest and later told the court in December last year that he was at the University of South Africa to sort out his financial aid application. State witnesses from the university’s examination and protection service testified that the university had no records to prove his alibi and the claim that he was on campus on the day of the shooting. He was also not a registered student between January and June 2015 and therefore would not have been able to gain access to campus with an invalid student card. He also remained silent about his alibi on the attempted murder charge in the lower courts and later claimed that he was in his room at the hostel and nowhere near the block where the shooting happened. He claimed that he was advised by his legal representative to remain silent. “It must be kept in mind that he was told by the lawyer to keep silent. “There is, however, nothing before this court to suggest that he disclosed his alibi in the lower courts. “This is absurd because if his alibi on both incidents were really true, he would have disclosed them at the lower courts,” said Abraham. Daily News