Durban - The KwaZulu-Natal government has embarked on a rabies vaccination drive following the death of a two-year-old child who was bitten by a rabid dog in the Ilembe District, north of the province. Khaye Nkwanyana, department of agriculture and rural development spokesperson said that outbreak stretches from the King Cetshwayo District (between Eshowe and Richards Bay), down south through the Ilembe District (Ndwedwe and Maphumulo) and into Inanda in Durban. Nkwanyana said the death of the child shocked the department and has led to the strengthening on the fight and combat so that no other lives are lost through rabies. “The Province is now on a massive drive to eliminate rabies completely in order to prevent more human deaths. What we are targeting is the vaccination of more than 70% of the dogs in these districts as they remain the main source of the disease for the rest of province. We have taken a decision to set aside a budget for the next six month intensification of the vaccination programme, especially in rural areas working with local authorities,” Nkwanyana said. Vaccination drives have already begun in areas such as Appelsbosch, Ozwathini, Inanda and Umlalazi. Nkwanyana said: “Mass vaccination and education campaigns are planned to sweep across the entire affected belt in the province, from Inanda to Richards Bay. Our vets and technicians from other districts will be deployed for more capacity to concentrate mainly on these affected areas with mobile animal clinics to cover as many households with dogs and other domesticated animals as possible". He also said that primary health care vehicles educational visits will be conducted in local schools across the districts. “As part of awareness, communication strategy which involves media platforms such as radios, community newspapers and social media is being finalized,” Nkwanyana said. Since 2007, the veterinary staff in KZN has reduced animal rabies by 90%, which saw 473 cases come down to 47. Nkwanyana said, until recently, KZN has been human rabies free. Working in partnership with the World Health Organization and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, mass dog vaccination programs were conducted, which reduced the disease in the province and established KZN as the Africa leader in rabies control. Daily News