Durban - One could hear a pin drop when Michaelhouse pupils and staff were told of the bus crash that killed 16-year-old pupil Themba Dloti, said Murray Witherspoon, the marketing director at the school. More than 40 pupils were injured when the privately-owned bus they were travelling in overturned on the N3 near the Howick off-ramp outside Pietermaritzburg on Tuesday. According to a statement released by the school, 46 boys and four teachers were being transported in a hired 60-seat bus to soccer fixtures at Kearsney College. “The bus carrying four U16 soccer teams to Kearsney suffered from a blow-out going down Townhill near Pietermaritzburg and flipped on to its side,” said Greg Theron, the school’s rector, in a statement he issued just after the incident. Witherspoon said he received a call from Theron, who heard the news barely a minute after it happened. “You can’t anticipate something like this,” Murray said. “There was a sense of urgency and the school and community came together to help out. Schoolboys and staff members were called to the chapel and were told about what happened. It was an absolute shock. You could hear a pin drop,” he said. As word of the incident spread, there was overwhelming support from the community and parents who helped with some offering accommodation to pupils who needed it. Witherspoon said two boys were in a serious condition, but their lives were not in danger. A number of boys and a staff member underwent operations last night while the rest of the boys, who were in the bus, returned to school. He said three more boys were expected to undergo surgery soon. Trish Guy, who lives near the scene of the accident, said: “It sounded like something had been dropped at a building site.” She initially thought it was a collision, but then questioned why there were no screeching tyres or the sound of breaking glass. A few minutes later, Guy used the freeway to fetch her daughter from school. She saw the overturned vehicle and about 10 ambulances at the scene. “It looked quite horrific,” Guy said. “I actually felt terrible. I realised it was not just any accident. It was a terrible tragedy as it involved children.” Nick Dollman, of ER24, said paramedics from various emergency services were at the scene yesterday. “Two Netcare 911 Advanced Life Support paramedics attended to one of the victims with severe injuries, and one with serious injuries, both of whom required analgesic medication for pain management,” said Dollman. He added that police and the fire department were also at the scene. Nathi Sukazi, provincial Department of Transport spokesperson, said from preliminary investigations, the cause of the incident appeared to be a burst tyre. “As standard procedure, an investigation will be conducted,” he said. The department sent its condolences to Themba’s family and also to those who were affected by the incident. Sihle Mlotshwa, the provincial Department of Education spokesperson, also sent his condolences. Daily News