The Story Bosso roadshow has hit KZN and an event was held at Sizani Primary School in uMhlali on Thursday. Ben Rycroft, head of communications at Nal’ibali, which is spearheading the event, said storytelling helped children to be comfortable reading in their mother language. The event also forms part of literacy month in the country. Nal’ibali is a Cape-Town based reading-for-enjoyment campaign to spark children’s potential through storytelling and reading. The event will focus on African folktales. “If you start with ‘Once upon a time...’ children are already captivated,” Rycroft said. Submissions for the competition are not limited to primary schoolchildren and can be written in one’s mother tongue. Entries can be sent via e-mail, by uploading on Nal’ibali’s website and even via WhatsApp. The NGO will visit four provinces including Mpumalanga, Western Cape and Gauteng. One of those who is part of the NGO’s efforts is Sanelisiwe Ntuli. The 33-year-old, from Hammarsdale outside Cato Ridge, said storytelling had always been a passion for her. Her late father used to tell her stories as a child and she grew up enjoying telling stories. Besides working with Nal’ibali, she tells stories on uKhozi FM. Ntuli said storytelling helped to sharpen children’s listening skills and to communicate better. Writing skills were also important because most of the children used “WhatsApp language” and did not know how to write properly. She said some children as old as 10 could not spell their own names. Another inspiration for her is famed storyteller Gcina Mhlophe. Sizani Primary School principal Ntombenhle July expressed her excitement. She said the school already had a history of storytelling that spanned more than 30years, but yesterday’s visit by Nal’ibali taught them “new tricks”, like someone starting a story and asking a child to finish it, which would encourage a child to be creative. July said they were planning to share what they had learnt from the visit with other schools in the area. The winner of the competition will receive R5 000, a R1 000 book voucher and R500 airtime. Provincial winners will each receive R1 000. Daily News