Durban - Life changed dramatically for Michael Gwynn after he had gastric bypass surgery.
Gwynn, who weighed 130kg, battled to walk without a stick, had difficulty breathing and suffered from backache. And as a type 2 insulin-dependent patient, he was on 380 units of insulin a day, and also took hypertension and cholesterol tablets. But after the operation at the Durban Bariatric Surgery at Netcare St Augustine’s Hospital in Durban, Gwynn's weight decreased to 72.5kg. He now does not take any insulin or tablets, has no problems with breathing nor walking - and has saved his medical aid the R6000 a month that it cost for his medication. “When you lose weight, you lose the symptoms," he explained. “My doctor told me that if I did not have the surgery I would be dead in two years, so I had no choice.” Gwynn, now 76, was 72 at the time, and the oldest patient to undergo a laparoscopic gastric bypass procedure at the Durban Bariatric Surgery. The specialist surgeon who carried out his life-changing operation, Dr Gert du Toit, was recently honoured for his “outstanding” contribution to metabolic surgery. He received the inaugural “Centre of the Year” award from the SA Society for Surgery, Obesity and metabolism. The surgery is the preferred procedure for morbid obesity and associated illnesses, including type 2 diabetes, and Du Toit and his team are expected to perform their 400th operation soon. While the average weight of their patients is about 150kg, they have carried out operations on patients weighing up to 250kg. Du Toit - who praised the support, high ethical standards and technical prowess of his surgical partner, Dr Ivor Funnell - said the award was particularly rewarding because they were able to see the appreciable positive difference that the procedure had made in the lives of their patients. Patients felt more confident and there were “impressive results in terms of the reversal of insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes, and a wide range of other obesity-related and metabolic health conditions”, he said. To be considered as a surgical candidate, patients must be dedicated to drastic lifestyle changes, and commit to follow-up appointments. They must have a body mass index of 40 or above, or 35-40 with significant associated health problems. Daily News