Apelgren, head of international and governance relations at the eThekwini Municipality, said those memories, among others, were his favourites from his heritage and culture. Explaining his heritage, Apelgren said his paternal heritage was Zulu and Swedish, while on his mother’s side, it was English and Zulu. “Apelgren is a Swedish surname. My ancestors were traced to Gothenburg, a Swedish soldier from a hat-making family. My mother was a factory worker and an active Catholic communist, while my father was an activist in local civic organisations. I have seven sisters and four brothers. “Our parents always took us on holiday to our Zulu ancestral home in uMtwalume on the South Coast. I can remember my parents teaching us to respect our Zulu, Swedish and English ancestry. I am a fifth generation descendant of Dick King, but I do not have much respect for him due to his lack of concern and support for all his coloured offspring and Zulu wives,” said Apelgren. He believed heritage played an important role in society. Identity “It gives you a sense of belonging and identity. It also develops your character and assists you in your relations with people. It further teaches you to respect all people, regardless of their race, class or religious background. It prepares you to be a better adult. You do not repeat the mistakes of the past, but learn from it and pass on powerful lessons to the next generation,” he said. Apelgren felt more could be done in schools to promote and celebrate cultural diversity. “We should help people understand each other, share food, music and art and dance moves, and understand each other’s dress code and sense. We must use our culture and heritage to inspire young people to be entrepreneurs and innovators. We need to support more events, activities, publication of books, poetry and social media that give young people an avenue to freely celebrate their culture and heritage. “This will build and strengthen social cohesion, and reduce conflict, racism, sexism and rage towards each other,” he said. When asked what was unique about his culture and heritage, Apelgren said: “It has the best of many worlds. It lets me have more fun and laughter. My culture and heritage is homemade. I am not tied down by dogma and narrow definitions of my religion and heritage. I am free to take the best of all my backgrounds and use that to define my role and purpose in life.” Apelgren is married to Deborah Ewing and they have three children - Shannon, Khanya and Kannon. Daily News