Luxury  brand Jimmy Choo unveiled it's new Autumn Winter 2017 Collection for men and women at their Diamond Walk store in Sandton City this week. 
For the women's range, the brand released a shoe collection that encapsulates the recurring theme of duality that is at the heart of the brand. That spirit is the embodiment of Yin and Yang, tough but soft, feminine and powerful; she is a woman with an innate confidence. The collection reflects a strong sense of refined, modern glamour in which the twin pillars of rebel and romance. Consisting of glitter and some velvet, the shoes look like they could make you leave an unforgettable statement. For men, British Punk Rock band The Clash and the concept of clashing aesthetics serve as inspirations, delivering surprising blends of sartorial English eccentricity with a pinch of Punk rock attitude. Sandton City Jimmy Choo store owner. Dr Judy Dlamini. Picture: Simphiwe Mbokazi. “I was inspired by looking closely at The Clash, where their style codes are a fusion of traditional English gent with Punk attitude. This collection is ammunition for men who have their own point of view - raw material for self-expression in a world where individualism is the only style rule to abide by,” says Sandra Choi, creative director. Jimmy Choo high heeled shoes. Picture: Simphiwe Mbokazi. All the range was inspired by the codes that define the brand; confidence, playfulness and glamour. 
“This season is a particularly pure expression of Jimmy Choo. We've focused on the codes that define us; the confidence, the sexiness, the playfulness and the glamour employed with signature leopard and studs in surprising manifestations. Perfumes. Picture: Simphiwe Mbokazi. "But as well as looking back we look forward by using unexpected modern fabrications that combine lightness with a sensually glossy finish lending some of the pieces a sci-fi sleekness. The fundamental essence of Jimmy Choo lies in its attitude blended with beauty and this season has it in abundance”, Choi adds.