Pool supervisors were monitoring water usage daily and all minor or major leaks were attended to immediately, said Tozi Mthethwa, the city spokesperson. Shami Harichunder, Umgeni Water spokesperson, said the Mgeni water system (Midmar, Spring Grove, Mearns, Albert Falls, Nagle and Inanda dams) had experienced below average rainfall over the past 30 months. This, said Harichunder, resulted in some of these dams remaining consistently at low levels. “It is as a result of inadequate rainfall and concerns over the levels of Midmar (70%) and Albert Falls (25%) dams that mandatory water restrictions of 15% have been implemented.” In the Hazelmere system, water restrictions of 40% have been lifted after good rainfalls over the past six months. The Hazelmere system serves areas in the far north of eThekwini and parts of iLembe. The eThekwini Municipality’s 52 pools will be fully operational come the school holidays and year-end festivities. However, the pool opposite the Durban City Hall, on Dr Pixley KaSeme (West) Street, remains closed since August 2000. Offices The city had plans to build offices on these premises, but nothing had materialised. Mthethwa said in the interim, the Parks Department was using the site. Still undergoing major repairs are Rachel Finlayson - structural refurbishment; uMlazi BB - replacement of all faulty pipelines; Newlands - refurbishment of pipework and tiling; and Firwood Road - an investigation of water loss is under way. The beachfront paddling pools are also ready. The city has recruited 130 seasonal pool supervisors to assist during the peak summer period, and in partnership with KZN Aquatics, all affiliated clubs will assist. Mthethwa said they had also engaged voluntary lifeguards from among those who had a passion for lifesaving and career development. At least six public pools have undergone renovations.  Shallcross - refurbishment, filtration and changeroom facilities; Mariannridge - re-tiling; Verulam - refurbishment of pool and filter plant;  uMlaziG - repairs to main supply line to pool, excavated and repaired; Tills Crescent - tiling of swimming pool and paving of surrounds; and KwaMashuD - upgrading of filter plant. Two new swimming pools were built: in Inanda, a 25m standard pool and recreational paddling pools; and in Umgababa, a 50m Olympic-size and toddlers’ pools. Harichunder said water restrictions and use of emergency schemes had been effective in slowing down the drop in the levels of some dams within Umgeni Water’s operational area. “Consumers within the affected areas have begun to appreciate the need for water conservation and for the implementation of water rationing and restrictions as a means to manage the effects of the drought,” Harichunder said. Daily News