Durban - One thousand new job opportunities are in the pipeline on the South Coast, deputy mayor Fawzia Peer has revealed. They will be created by Chinese investors who will be opening two factories in Ezimbokodweni, near eManzimtoti and at uMgababa, she told guests, including the local diplomatic corps, at the celebration marking the 68th anniversary of the founding of the People’s Republic of China at the Maharani Hotel in Durban on Friday night. She said that since South Africa opened up to Chinese trade again in 1994, the value of exports to China from Durban had increased by more than 180%. “Chinese imports into Durban have grown by almost 200%. From 2010, manufactured goods exported to China from Durban overtook mining goods, hence contributing to a healthier trade relationship,” she said. China had helped to place Africa on the map as an attractive business and key investment destination, investing in Africa at a time when it was only viewed as a destination for donor aid. As a result, China accounted for the highest valued  of investment on the continent, Peer said. The host, the consul-general of China in Durban, Jianzhou Wang, said Chinese companies in KZN were doing well and that more companies were looking for opportunities to invest in the province. China’s Shenzhen Port was also planning to twin with the Port of Durban, he said. The number of young people learning Mandarin in KZN was on the increase (there are 200 pupils in Grade 8 at Crawford colleges studying the language) and there was great potential for future co-operation in various fields such as agriculture, manufacturing, tourism, education, the blue economy, special economic zones, health and medicine, to name just some sectors. Destination South Africa was already China’s biggest trading partner in Africa and the most important investment and tourist destination on the continent. In the past 68 years and particularly since the adoption of the reform and opening up policy nearly 40 years ago, China had blazed a successful path of development and had made remarkable achievements, he said. For two decades, the country’s GDP had grown at an average annual rate of 9.4%. And from 1978 to 2016, China’s GDP had increased from $216.8 billion to $11 trillion and its per capita GDP had increased from $227 to $8 000, “marking a world development miracle by lifting more than 700 million Chinese people out of poverty”. More than 10 million people a year had been lifted out of poverty in recent years, Jianzhou said, and the aim was that by 2020, “China will completely eliminate poverty across its 1.3 billion-plus population… the people’s wish for a good life is our goal.” His government encouraged people to start businesses and be innovative and in recent years, some 10 million entities had been registered every year. Daily News