This emerged on Thursday, when Jeff Radebe, Minister in the Presidency responsible for Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation, launched the budget mandate paper that will drive the budget process from April next year. Radebe said the budget mandate paper was a result of the work of the National Planning Commission determining that the budget must be aligned with the priorities of the National Development Plan. The National Treasury has in the past been accused by other departments of steamrolling the budget process. But this was denied by the National Treasury, saying there were consultations with departments in the build-up to the tabling of the budget in Parliament. Radebe said the priorities for next year’s budget were job creation, youth development, infrastructure development, social security and the fight against crime. In addition, the government was committed to land reform and advancing the interests of the country globally. There was no mistrust between his department and the Treasury, he said. He said the mandate paper was approved by the cabinet last month. “It’s not the first time the department is working with the National Treasury. My predecessors, (the late) Collins Chabane and Trevor Manuel, worked with the Treasury. The genesis of the mandate paper came from the National Planning Commission at the time of the crisis of FeesMustFall.” Exceed Radebe said the budget mandate paper would ensure departments did not exceed their expenditures. Mpumi Mpofu, director-general in the Department of Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation, said her department would drive the process of prioritisation. Mpofu said the Treasury still chaired the Medium Term Expenditure Committee, where the spending and funding proposals of different departments were considered. Mpofu said her department had a responsibility to ensure the recommendations reflected the priorities of the government. “Both departments (Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation and National Treasury) play a mediating role of competing interests,” she said. One of the issues they wanted to deal with in the next Budget was to cut spending on consultants, she said. The Auditor-General has complained about billions of rand spent on consultants. Mpofu said they would ­target this area to reduce expenditure in government. “We have identified operational expenditure where departments use consultants for strategic planning and other nice things. Those are easy ­targets for cutting,” she said. The government also wants to reduce its legal bill. Mpofu and Radebe said litigation costs were high, and there were cases that should not be going to court, but settled outside. Daily News