Nolwazi Mbambo was convicted on Thursday for the murders of Nokuthula Patience Khotseng and Neo Khotseng. When acting Judge Sharon Marks handed down the sentence on Friday before a packed courtroom, Khotseng’s friends and family sang celebratory songs, while others shouted to Mbambo: “Go away, evil woman, go away and rot in jail. We never want to see you again. You got what you deserved.” Mbambo, 30, who was unhappy over maintenance payments for her children, was found guilty of attacking Khotseng and her baby at their home in Efolweni in April last year. Their bodies were found by neighbours. People in the community who had seen Mbambo leaving the house had apprehended her. A skirt she had been wearing when she committed the murders was found with Khotseng’s blood on it, in nearby bushes. Lipou, who has three children with Khotseng, said his wife and son would probably rest in peace now and also described the sentences as justice. “I can finally work at finding closure for my loss. The most important thing now is to find peace. I want to rebuild a relationship with my children whose mother will probably spend the rest of her life in prison.” Khotseng said the last time he saw his children was when Mbambo came to “dump them” with his wife because of the maintenance issue. Angry “I never had the courage to see them after their mother killed my wife and son. I was too angry. I, however, have no choice. They are my children and I have to raise them.” Marks said her sentences should set an example and be a strong message that women should not allow anger and jealousy to violate the law. “There are so many single mothers who are raising their children alone. However, with jealousy, anger and hurt, one cannot resort to violating the law against a third person. The only appropriate sentence is that of life imprisonment for each count of murder.” Marks refused the request by Mbambo’s lawyer,  Bulelani Mazomba, to have the two life sentences run concurrently as the murders happened together. “Running sentences concurrently just because they happened at the same time might bring an impression that I don’t take this matter seriously,” she said. Marks further made an order that the Department of Social Development investigate whether there would be a need for the children - who were staying with their maternal grandmother - to be taken care of and provided whatever assistance was needed. Marks ordered that the children remain in contact with their mother in prison and encouraged Khotseng to reconcile with them. Mbambo’s application for leave to appeal against her conviction and sentence was refused. Mazomba had argued that the State had relied on evidence of a single witness, Nonhlanhla Hlongwa, who testified that she saw Mbambo in a period of less than two minutes. Mazomba said Hlongwa could have made a mistake. Mazomba said the person who claimed to have found Mbambo’s skirt was not brought to court  to testify. He also argued that another court would arrive at a different decision. Marks refused the application, saying that senior State advocate Nadira Moosa had proven beyond a reasonable doubt that Mbambo committed the murders. Daily News