Durban - “Victors survive even the deepest of the pit”. These are the words on convicted fraudster and former KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson Vincent Mdunge’s WhatsApp status, which was last updated last Thursday. Mdunge handed himself to prison officials two weeks ago to start his five-year prison term. He was reportedly spotted wearing full orangeprison uniform and leg irons at King Edward VIII Hospital in Durban on Monday, while being escorted by heavily armed prison officials. Going from being the mouthpiece of the province’s police to convicted fraudster, and after a lengthy failed court bid to stay out of prison,he reportedly sat in a queue like all other patients at the public hospital and waited for his turn to enter a consultation room underthe watchful eye of the prison guards. A  source at the hospital said Mdunge came in to have some tests done and then left the facility. Mdunge was sentenced to five years’ imprisonment by the Durban Regional Court in May 2014 on two counts of fraud and one of forgery. Magistrate Thandeka Fikeni found that he had presented a fake matric certificate that secured him a promotion, advanced his career in thepolice service and gained him entry to the University of South Africa (Unisa) to continue his studies. He was convicted on one charge of fraud for receiving a salary to which he was not entitled, and another for the forged matric certificate. Mdunge lost an appeal to have his convictions overturned in the Pietermaritzburg High Court. In July, his Supreme Court of Appealapplication to appeal the High Court’s decision also failed. Correctional Services spokesperson Thulani Mdluli confirmed that Mdunge handed himself to authorities two weeks ago. “He is serving his sentence at Durban’s Westville Prison,” he said. Mdluli said Mdunge was not well and prison officials took him to King Edward VIII Hospital for treatment. He said Mdunge was first assessed at the prison's medical facility before being sent to hospital. Mdluli would not comment further onMdunge's medical condition as it is a confidential matter. "It is the department’s policy for a prisoner to be cuffed when transported out of the centre to court appearances or for medicalattention,” he said. A source at Westville Prison told the Daily News that Mdunge was brought back to the prison later on Monday and was being kept at aprison ward where his health was being monitored. “It is not clear what is wrong with him, but he is receiving medical treatment,” said the source. Daily News