On Sunday, the hearing was postponed for a second time after neither Khoza nor her lawyer arrived. The hearing has now been rescheduled for October 1. Mdumiseni Ntuli, ANC provincial spokesperson, insisted the committee still had the power to try and discipline Khoza. Ntuli said Khoza and her legal team had acted in an “unimaginable and unexpected” manner yesterday, as they were not available on their phones. Despite last week’s Pietermaritzburg High Court ruling, which declared the 2015 provincial conference “unlawful”, the provincial executive committee (PEC) had not been dissolved by the national executive committee (NEC), he said. Khoza’s defiance of the committee, he said, was based on a flawed understanding of the court judgment, which he said had not disbanded or prevented the current PEC from exercising its duties. He said the provincial structure was working with the NEC to appeal against the judgment. “The NEC is of the view that comrade Makhosi is charged by the party, not by the PEC. “The PEC has not been dissolved (by the NEC), and it must act on behalf of the party because the matter affecting the PEC is one that is subject to internal processes of the organisation,” said Ntuli. The committee had scheduled Khoza’s disciplinary hearing for yesterday because during the week, the committee had held discussions “not confined to the concerns about the legitimacy of the process (disciplinary hearing) and the legitimacy of the PEC”, he said. “They (committee presenters) said ‘we must rather give them the benefit of the doubt’, proceed to the extent that we could but defer the rest of the issue to be settled on October 1. “This is a provincial disciplinary committee that is in no rush to deal with comrade Makhosi; it is a DC intended to be fair and just by ensuring there is an opportunity for comrade Makhozi,” said Ntuli. He said if Khoza continued to be “defiant”, the committee would proceed and pass judgment. Rights When contacted, Khosa’s lawyer, advocate Smanga Sethene, said he was not prepared to discuss the matter with the media, and referred queries to Khoza. But she did not answer her phone. However, in the letter sent to the committee last week, Khoza said the committee was violating her rights enshrined in the “country’s constitution, as well as the ANC constitution” as the PEC had been nullified. “Accordingly, it is clear that the invalid disciplinary hearing against me cannot proceed, and my attendance at such void process is unnecessary. “All my rights remain reserved, including seeking such urgent declaratory relief as may be necessary to protect my rights to the fullest,” she wrote. Daily News