This has led to Parliament asking Speaker Baleka Mbete and Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa to intervene and haul the minister before the National Assembly to account. The question and answer session on Thursday called in many ministers to answer to their role in letting Mugabe go. Nkoana-Mashabane travelled to Vietnam on business. But opposition MPs were not happy about the trip saying she knew months ago she had to be in Parliament on Thursday. Earlier, Jackson Mthembu, ANC chief whip, had called for the tightening of the rules of Parliament to force ministers to come and account. “On the Minister of International Relations her absence is regrettable. “We have raised the matter with the Leader of Government Business to be here to answer questions. “What is Parliament’s (role)? It’s something our rules must look at. It’s not something that reflects on all members of the executive,” said Mthembu. “We must sharpen our rules,” he said. In the House, opposition MPs did not buy excuses from ANC ministers that Nkoana-Mashabane was away. DA chief whip John Steenhuisen said ministers were accountable to Parliament. It was unacceptable for the minister to skip the sitting when she knew from early in the year she had to be in Parliament on Thursday. Narend Singh, IFP chief whip, also slammed the minister’s absence. This was despite the fact that she had asked State Security Minister David Mahlobo to stand in for her. Singh said it was unacceptable that Nkoana-Mashabane decided to miss the sitting of the House. Sizani Dubazana-Dlamini of the ANC said the minister of international relations was within her rights to ask her cabinet colleague to represent her. But Sam Matiase of the EFF warned the ANC to stop defending the indefensible. House chairperson Cedric Frolick said the matter would be referred to Mbete and Ramaphosa. Mahlobo said Nkoana-Mashabane had tendered an apology that she would be absent. Minister of Police Fikile Mbalula and Justice Minister Michael Masutha said they were not responsible for the granting of diplomatic immunity to Mugabe. Mbalula also denied he was misled that Grace Mugabe would hand herself to the police before she left the country. He denied there was miscommunication between him and the senior police officers on Mugabe’s handover at the police station. “There was no communication breakdown. There was no lie in terms of what I communicated. “It did not happen because what they agreed to they changed because they applied for indemnity.” Masutha said the onus was on Nkoana-Mashabane to issue diplomatic immunity. As justice minister he had no role in the matter. Daily News