He died on Monday night at Durban’s Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital where he was recuperating after being shot during an ambush in July. Magaqa, 34, was with two ANC colleagues, Nonsikelelo Mafa and Jabu Mzizi, in the Umzimkhulu area. They were returning from an ANC meeting and stopped near a shop when they came under fire. Magaqa served in the council and as Member of the Mayoral Committee (MMC) in the Harry Gwala district. He was married and a father of three young children. Describing Magaqa as a “young lion and one of the movement’s most brave and fearless fighters”, ANCYL national communications manager Khusela Sangoni said they were deeply saddened by his passing. “Comrade Magaqa was part of a generation of young people in the ANC who fought tirelessly for the realisation of the vision of economic freedom. “Elected at the ANC Youth League’s 24th National Congress, he formed part of a collective which lived true to the clarion call by Frantz Fanon, that ‘each generation, out of relative obscurity, must discover its mission, fulfil it or betray it’,” Sangoni said. “For their commitment to their convictions, Comrade Magaqa and his comrades suffered differences with the leadership of the organisation and marginalisation within the structures of the movement,” said Sangoni. EFF leader and former ANCYL leader Julius Malema tweeted: “My brother and friend #SindisoMagaqa is no more, may his soul Rest in Peace. We will always miss you fearless economic freedom fighter.” ANC Harry Gwala regional secretary Sindi Msomi was optimistic that Magaqa would soon be discharged as he seemed fully recovered from his bullet wounds. “He spent only three weeks on life support. By last week I thought he had fully recovered as we spent time talking, and sharing jokes,” she said. Fine Msomi said when she spoke to him on Thursday, they were both seated on a sofa and “he looked fine”. “When I left I was hoping the hospital would soon call me back to take him home. But on Sunday he told me about severe stomach pains, and that doctors were still trying to establish the source of the pains,” she said. Umzimkhulu mayor Mphuthumi Mpabanga said he heard of Magaqa’s death from Msomi at about 10pm. He had not visited him in hospital “because I was not on the list of people (permitted visitors) who were allowed to visit him”. “I hear that he died at about 7pm,” he said. ANC KwaZulu-Natal deputy secretary Mluleki Ndobe, who is also the mayor of the Harry Gwala District Municipality, said he had served with Magaqa in the ANC’s Alfred Nzo Youth League regional executive committee before Umzimkhulu town was relocated from the Eastern Cape province to KwaZulu-Natal. Meanwhile, the KZN MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, Mxolisi Kaunda, has moved to assure the community of Umzimkhulu that law enforcement agencies were doing their best to maintain stability in the area and to resolve outstanding cases of public officials who had been assassinated. There have been at least six cases of political violence in the Harry Gwala district since April this year. In a statement to the media, Kaunda strongly appealed for law enforcement agencies to be given space, and urged members of the public to refrain from speculating and making accusations. “We are calling for calm. We also wish to assure the people of Umzimkhulu that the police are doing their best to investigate and resolve all the outstanding cases of assassination and attack on public representatives. “Serious interventions and deployments of specialist teams have been made, and we appeal to the people to work with them. “On behalf of the provincial government, I wish to send our heartfelt condolences to the Magaqa family, friends and colleagues in the government and the ANC,” said Kaunda. Because of the high-profile nature of the case, it is being investigated by the provincial organised crime task team.