Durban - A 37-year-old man from KwaZulu-Natal who had suffered a crush injury to his left lower leg, was discharged from Netcare Alberlito Hospital after undergoing a highly intricate, almost 10 hour microsurgical free tissue transfer operation. Senzo Mbuyazi had spent almost a month in hospital after he had suffered a crush injury in July, which led to a fracture of both his tibia and fibula bones. Dr Trishan Pillay, a plastic and reconstructive surgeon at the hospital said the surgical and medical teams are thrilled with the outcome of the procedure. The operation involved a multidisciplinary team that included Dr Sachin Baba, a resident orthopaedic surgeon at Netcare Alberlito Hospital, Dr Leraj AK Lekha, anaesthetist and Dr Trishan Pillay and Dr Desigan Pillay, plastic and reconstructive surgeons. “Mr Mbuyazi’s exposed bone was completely covered by the transplanted tissue, and the nerves and tissue were meshing together and healing well by the time he was discharged,” said Dr Pillay. “The new tissue will also enable the healing of the bone and we expect Mr Mbuyazi to have the full function of his leg restored within approximately five weeks.” Dr Pillay said the free tissue transfer procedure is not a new operation but it is highly complex as it needs a multidisciplinary team that is trained in the technique. “It is the first time that the procedure has been completed at Netcare Alberlito Hospital and it undoubtedly assisted in saving the patient’s leg,” he added. He explained that the free tissue transfer operation involves transplanting living tissue from one part of the body to another and allows the reconstruction of complex injuries like Mbuyazi’s. It is difficult because of the complexity and intricacy of the blood and vascular, or circulatory system. “It requires long hours in the operating room and a very steady hand as well as specialised microsurgical instrumentation and other equipment, including a high powered microscope, all of which we have at our disposal at the hospital.” Mbuyazi was transferred from Netcare The Bay Hospital in Richards Bay following his injury. “Initially the wound was still contaminated with some necrotic, or dead, tissue and debris. It therefore required a number of debridements, or procedures to remove this tissue, until the wound was healthy and ready to be closed,” observes Dr Pillay. “The lower leg is a very difficult area to reconstruct owing to the limited tissue available that can be used to transfer to the wound. The international gold standard treatment option for this area is a free tissue transfer, so after careful consideration of all options, the team elected to go this route.” After the procedure and a period of recovery, Mbuyazi received physiotherapy. “Mr Mbuyazi made a strong recovery and the hospital staff and doctors are gratified that he could be discharged home in good spirits,” said Dr Augusta Dorning, general manager of Netcare Alberlito Hospital and Netcare KwaZulu-Natal region’s business development manager. “His progress will be closely monitored by his team of doctors and we wish him a speedy recovery.” Daily News