On Friday, she sentenced Nkululeko Mofokeng, 21, to life imprisonment. He was also sentenced to 10 years for robbery and five years for housebreaking. His lawyer, Fezile Sinama, had asked the court to consider his client’s drug addiction and his age when considering the sentence. Mofokeng was convicted last week for the murder of the 69-year-old Moseley Park resident. Dorr was a retired engineer and lived alone with his dogs and cats. His decomposing body was found hidden under grass and debris in his backyard on June 18, 2015. He had been stabbed 14 times and died of an injury to the left lung. Mofokeng was later found with two cellphones and other items which had belonged to Dorr. Masipa said Mofokeng’s drug addiction did not justify a young man killing an elderly defenceless man. Fingerprint evidence indicated that, although Mofokeng was the only accused, another person had been at the scene. “The State has proved its case beyond a reasonable doubt,” Masipa said. “The court had to make its decision based on that and arrived at the decision that the life imprisonment sentence was the appropriate sentence for the crime you committed.” Sinama applied for leave to appeal against his client’s conviction and sentence, which was denied. Sinama argued that evidence brought by the State was circumstantial. “It could be that he kept guard outside the house and he was called to collect the items after the man was killed. The State has also failed to provide the exact time of death. All this leave us with the belief that another court may arrive at a different decision,” said Sinama. Masipa dismissed the application, saying the evidence in the State’s case had been proven beyond reasonable doubt and there were no prospects of succeeding in another court. Senior State advocate Kelvin Singh had opposed the application, saying after Mofokeng killed Dorr in his home where he was supposed to be safe, he and his accomplice had enough time to take whatever they wanted from the house. “This court heard the evidence of a witness who gave them a lift, that they carried a big bag with items,” said Singh. He said evidence before the court, which was not challenged by the defence, was that during the pointing-out, Mofokeng showed the police where the body was hidden. “He showed the police the body. He told the police what he did and how he did it. The evidence is clear and no other court would arrive at a different conclusion,” said Singh. Daily News