Magaqa died in hospital last week after an ambush by unknown assailants. He was attacked alongside two other Umzimkhulu councillors - Nontsikelelo Mafa of Ward 11 and Ward 16’s Jabu Mzizi - in July after an ANC regional meeting. Mafa and Mzizi survived the attack. Richard Mkhungo, the KwaZulu-Natal provincial secretary of the South African National Civics Organisation (Sanco) said tenders had played a huge role in the murders of councillors, including Magaqa who was opposed to corruption in the province. Mkhungo urged the provincial and national government to scrap the tender system. “A comrade will not be killed by people they haven’t been at odds with. There are plotters behind this and this needs to end, comrades. Let’s not massacre each other like this,” Mkhungo said. He said the disunity in the party meant that if an ANC member was killed, the first reaction would be that it was because of intra-party fighting. “Those who have killed must be arrested quickly. We believe that will help reduce this scourge,” said Mkhungo. Gugu Mavuma of Cosatu, one of the speakers who knew Magaqa well, said Magaqa was so brave that on their way to the ANC policy conference in July, he had dodged his bodyguard and driven from Umzimkhulu to Pietermaritzburg alone. “This was wrong and we fought over it until we got to Johannesburg. We all know that Sindiso was killed for fighting corruption that is prevalent inside the municipality (Umzimkhulu Local Municipality). “As Cosatu we will continue fighting for the idea of Sindiso Jethro Magaqa, to stand for the truth until what exactly is going on in the Umzimkhulu Municipality is revealed,” said Mavuma. He said they believed Magaqa would have brought change to the municipality and that one of the causes Magaqa was fighting for was to get the salaries of workers in the municipality to the same levels as their colleagues in KwaZulu-Natal. “Today we have Police Minister comrade Mbaks (Fikile Mbalula) in our midst and we are no longer asking for forensic audits. We are now asking for a special investigation unit to come investigate the goings on at the municipality. “Plans to kill are hatched inside that municipality and we want the investigation to probe why those who are not under threat in that municipality are protected yet those who are being targeted and killed do not have protection,” Mavuma said. He said to date the Umzimkhulu council had still not provided security for Mafa. Lived for politics Magaqa’s brother, Lwazi, said the slain politician lived for politics. “South Africa was going to grow strong with Sindiso’s leadership, but the opportunity to be with him was taken away from us. “Despite his stature in politics he remained humble and respectful. Sindiso’s passing has left us with heavy hearts,” Magaqa said. Mbalula, during his address, urged party members not to despair because the challenges facing the ANC would be sorted out at its December national elective conference. Daily News