This was the sentiment of Zamani transit camp residents who spoke to the Daily News on Thursday. The uMlazi residents said that when they were moved from various parts of the city in 2009, the provincial government and the city promised they would be relocated to proper low-cost housing units after South Africa hosted the 2010 World Cup. “Our government has dumped us next to these giant pools of s*** and forgotten about us. What’s painful is that we were dumped next to s*** like we are pigs,” said Mandisa Majola. “These giant sewerage treatment dams are less than 100m from my doorstep." “We are still waiting to be moved.” Majola has lived in the camp for eight years and has yet to see the city and human settlement senior officials address the situation. “Life here is terrible. We breath s*** every day and our children get sick often. We have been reduced to pigs and many people have died of ill health because of the conditions we live under,” said the unemployed mother-of-three. Her neighbour, Japhet Shezi, has also been waiting for a proper house since 2010. They are both from the Malukazi area and arrived in the area at the same time. “When I arrived here, there were all these promises of better and proper housing structures. “In this area we don’t know the officials. Even our councillor is new so we can’t ask him about our relocation. “It’s hard living in such squalor with my three boys, who hop from contractual job to contractual job. Our health is at risk because of this sewerage treatment plant,” Shezi said. When the Daily News visited the area on Thursday, it was difficult to breathe because of the air from the treatment plant. It is not clear if the municipal health inspectors had visited the place to assess its suitability for human habitation before people were “dumped” there. Mthunzi Gumede, mayor Zandile Gumede’s spokesperson, said on Thursday he was not sure and would have to find out from the relevant department. He said Zamani was still a concern for the municipality. “There’s a housing backlog and the mayor has called for a speedy resolution to the problem,” Gumede said. Residents claimed they tried several times to get the municipality’s attention. Zandile Vilakazi, a mother of one, said the government and the municipality did not respect them because they had never gone on a rampage and blockaded roads, as was the case with service delivery protests. “We were removed from Clairwood and were told not to worry because we would be out of here after the world cup,” Vilakazi said. “For how long will they take us for granted?” The camp has 1 237 units. Addressing Parliament’s select committee on social services this week, Human Settlements MEC Ravi Pillay admitted the low-cost housing programme to accommodate these people was not running according to plan. In Durban there are 9 829 people living in transit camps. “As for the sewerage treatment plant in Zamani, as much as the people have not received their houses in time, we see a need to at least make their lives as reasonable as possible,” Pillay said. Delisile Ngwenya, an EFF committee member, said it could not be right for Human Settlements to take so long to identify land on which to build and place these residents. “Let’s not play with our people. That department is creating a health hazard for the already overburdened Health Department. “What you have created may not have been intentional, but it is still not right for those people and their children,” she said. On Thursday Ngwenya said the people were promised houses in Cornubia but other people had taken occupation of the units by force. “It’s a sad story because they have not been given what was promised,” she said. Daily News