Bafana Bafana - still reeling from back to back loses against Cape Verde which has left them bottom of group D with four points from four games - beat Senegal 2-1 in November 2016. Ghanaian Lamptey,  awarded a dubious penalty to Bafana just before half-time when Senegal’s Kalidou Koulibaly was adjudged to have handled the ball in the box. However, replays proved that the ball had hit Koulibaly’s legs. The Bureau for the Fifa World Cup Qualifiers ordered a replay of the qualification match following the confirmation of the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) to uphold Lamptey’s lifetime ban for match manipulation. The South African Football Association (Safa) confirmed on its website that it had received the report and that the match would be replayed within the November 2017 international window. The date has yet to be confirmed. Safa was studying the contents of the report and would issue a statement on whether to challenge that decision. Safa said it was in no way involved with any wrongdoing related to the actions of the referee. “In the meantime, all issues related to this matter will be handled by Senior Counsel, Mr Norman Arendse.” Bafana Bafana supporters took to social media to vent their anger against the decision. Supporters have labelled the decision unfair on the continent and called for other games with poor refereeing decisions to be replayed.  On Twitter The Villager @Penxenxe Somebody please tell FIFA we said ‘no thank you’. Senegal can have those points without humiliating us in the process. No dankie, sigrand  Tiyani wa ka Mabasa @TTM16 So Fifa banned ref for life and orders SA/Senegal replay, but they aren’t telling us who paid the ref to manipulate the match. Fair?  Marc Lewis @MarcLewisZA SA fans upset by FIFA’s decision saying “we did nothing wrong”. Senegal did nothing wrong either so how can we benefit? Replay is only fair.  Nhlakanipho Wii @Nipho_MK When it rains it pours 4 @BafanaBafana we actually have no win as the game against Senegal will be replayed. We will not see #Russia2018  Luwi  @LuwiOthandiweyo “when you thought verde has buried us 6 feet. fifa digs 12 feet so senegal can finish us for gud & make sure we cant be found” #BafanaBafana  On Bafana Bafana’s Facebook page  Sihle Shezi All of you South Africans can blame the squad and couch bt some decisions that FIFA takes are very stupid. Remember when Henry scored a goal with hand in 2010 world cup,why didn’t that match replayed and the referee suspended. Sometimes Africa is taken for granted in world global level  Lwazi Daweti I think fifa has opened a can of worms with this decision, can you imagine how many wrong decisions have been taken by referees in the field of play, can you imagine how many games will be replayed, they have set the precedence *  I hope they will maintain it, as mzantsi we should just play the game qha