Media reports on Sunday said that Myeni would remain until her close friend “uBaba” President Jacob Zuma ended his term 
in 2019 were simply mind-boggling, said Alf Lees, DA 
spokesperson. “I have written to Ms Myeni to request confirmation that these reports are true and if so why she believes it is in the interests of the crumbling SAA for her to remain despite commitments that her appointment would come to an end at the beginning of September. “It is clearly nonsensical for the cabinet to once again capitulate to the wishes of a discredited president and to not instruct Malusi Gigaba, the Minister of Finance, to adhere to the commitment that was made that Ms Myeni would be appointed as SAA board chair for one year. “Ms Myeni must be fired with immediate effect to prevent her continued destruction of the little that is left of SAA.” SAA was bankrupt and close to liquidation. Suppliers had not been paid in full in July and August and the SAA cash flow indicated that they would also not be paid in full in September. The airline had been running at losses of R350 million every month in the current financial year and if it could find benefactors to provide additional cash to pay its staff salaries and suppliers for the second six months of the 2017/18 financial year, was heading for a loss of R4 billion in 2017/18. “Even if the banks were to miraculously extend their loans to SAA this will not provide any cash and SAA will not be able to continue trading without a cash bailout from the South African taxpayer. “It is certainly not a ‘going concern’,” Lees said. “There is a R6.7bn loan payable to banks by September 30. “National Treasury has already been forced to pay Standard Chartered Bank R2.2bn when they refused to extend the loans to SAA.” City Bank had apparently also refused to extend its loans to SAA beyond September 30 and yesterday there were reports that Nedbank had informed SAA and National Treasury that it would not be able to extend the term of its loan beyond September 30 unless, possibly among other conditions, Myeni was removed as SAA board chair and from the SAA board. “It is clear that it is time for Ms Myeni to go. “Keeping her on would be irresponsible and would essentially ensure SAA’s destruction,” Lees said. ANA