Durban -The murder of Sindiso Magaqa, the former ANC Youth League secretary-general, has been linked to corruption in the Umzimkhulu Municipality - where he served as a councillor - as well as the coming ANC elective conference in the Harry Gwala Region.
These were the sentiments expressed on Tuesday by his angry supporters, who blamed local municipal and ANC leaders for the murder. They had gathered at Magaqa’s home at Lubisi Village in Umzimkhulu as ANC presidential hopeful Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma and ANC provincial chairperson Sihle Zikalala comforted Magaqa’s family. Magaqa’s friend, Zukiswa Hodi, said the murder of councillors in Umzimkhulu had become unbearable “because they are fighting against corruption”. Hodi, a political student and ANCYL activist, said Magaqa had been critical of the municipality because of the construction of a community hall, which had taken years to complete. “Sindiso Magaqa had been very vocal in saying 'Down with corruption in Umzimkhulu'. He would brief us each time he went to a council meeting. We are going to continue where Magaqa left off - we are organising a march against corruption,” said Hodi. Another youth league member, who declined to be named, linked Magaqa’s murder to the preparation for the regional conference. “The conference would have been held in October after it had been postponed several times because of the killing of councillors,” he said. Magaqa and two other councillors, Nsiki Mafa and Jabu Msiya, were shot in July while returning from an ANC meeting. Magaqa had been recovering in hospital, but died on Monday. Dlamini Zuma yesterday called for peace and tolerance after Magaqa’s supporters insulted party leaders and barred them from getting into the bereaved family’s home. Magaqa is one of four councillors killed in Umzimkhulu this year. Addressing Magaqa’s family, friends and angry supporters, Dlamini Zuma said although Magaqa’s death was painful, “Let us respect his departure by being disciplined. Let us respect him while we are preparing to bury him with the dignity he deserves. Whatever differences need to be discussed, the leadership will discuss it.” Magaqa served in the youth league under former president Julius Malema, and remained with the ANC when Malema was expelled from the party. Msiya and Mafa have since recovered from their injuries and were at Magaqa’s home yesterday. Daily News