Durban - KwaZulu-Natal is not one of the top three provinces for cash-in-transit heists statistics from the South African Banking Risk Information Centre (Sabric) show. Kaylani Pillay, CEO of Sabric, said the province saw a 49 per cent increase in cash-in-transit heists  between January and August 2017, when compared to the same period in 2016. In recent weeks more than a dozen cash-in-transit robbers were killed by police while attempting robberies. Wahl Bartmann, Fidelity Group CEO said last week about 10 armed men gained access to the Fidelity Vryheid depot and made off with millions of Rands. This week he confirmed that there were two more incidents, in Brits and Free State, but they were unsuccessful. The Western Cape, followed by North West and Gauteng had the highest increases in the first eight months of the year. “Unfortunately we have seen a spike in cash- in-transit heists across the country this year and these incidents exacerbate an already dire situation of attacks on cash- in-transit  vehicles and staff,” Bartmann said. Statistics compiled by Sabric between 1 January and 31 August 2017, show there have been 232 incidents across the industry with so called "cross-pavement attacks" the most prevalent. “We know that syndicates perpetrating these kinds of crimes are highly skilled and organised. We are constantly evolving our technology and changing our procedures to ensure we stay one step ahead of the criminals. Unfortunately the increase in crime, coupled with high unemployment is impacting on the number of robberies and heists. We have also seen a move from urban areas, where we have clamped down quite substantially, to the more outlying areas as evidenced by Friday’s attack,” Bartmann said. Pillay agreed and said heists are not only in urban areas but also occur in rural towns across South Africa. Sabric was working closely with Fidelity and other cash-in-transit companies and law enforcement officials to analyse the crime risk information in order to come up with strategies and risk mitigation measures to deal with the crisis. Bartmann cautioned the public to stay alert, especially during the festive season where cash in transit heists spike further. “We know wherever there is money there is risk and this risk does escalate at certain times of the month and typically during the latter half of the year,” he concluded. Daily News