Durban - Tributes have been pouring in on social media following news that Themi Venturas, local arts practitioner lost his battle to cancer. Venturas was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer in April this year. Born in Zimbabwe in 1958, Venturas was the youngest of four sons. His original birth name was Michael George Lostrom but his name was changed after he was adopted by his aunt, Evangelia Venturas and her husband. He was just 5-years old at the time. He lived with his aunt and uncle for a period after his aunt gave birth to a stillborn baby, as per doctor’s orders. This was meant to help her overcome her fear of having another baby, however she did not have another child and chose to adopt Venturas. After deliberations between his parents and aunt, he then moved with his aunt and uncle to South Africa, with the name Themistocles Venturas. He was bitten by the acting bug at the age of 5 after he won his first talent contest. A few years later, in Grade 9, Venturas wrote his first play at his school, Marist Brothers College. In his career, spanning over 30 years, Venturas acted, directed for than 500 plays, managed and wrote a number of award winning plays. He has served as President of the Performing Arts Network of South Africa (PANSA) in KwaZulu-Natal, and as a member of the PANSA national executive committee. He was also a trustee on the Arts and Culture Trust of South Africa and served as a member of the Theatre Biz board. Alan Khan, Durban radio personality, took to his Facebook page to share a tribute to Venturas. “I first met Themi 29 years ago and I have been an admirer of his talent ever since. A skilled actor and an astounding director, Themi Venturas was the consummate professional. I had interviewed him on air a few times and I was blessed to eventually work with him on stage during ‘A Night of a 100 Stars’ many years ago, raising funds for cancer research. The curtain came down on a remarkable career tonight and theatre lights will be dimmed around the country in honour of a man who made a significant contribution to South African theatre. Condolences to Trish and the family, friends and colleagues. Themi has left a wonderful legacy and we are all the richer for knowing him. May his soul Rest In Peace,” Khan wrote. Praline Ross, a Durban singer, added that Venturas’s death was a loss to the arts industry. “He directed us in the musical, Motown Forever at the Catalina back in 2008. What a great job he did,” said Ross. Satish Dhupelia, director at SD Video Enterprises, described Venturas as someone who made his mark in the theatre world. “He will be sorely missed. He was doing great work with school kids to bring them into the arts. May his soul Rest In Peace,” he said. Emma Durden, director of Twist Theatre Development Projects, worked alongside Venturas for many years. “It is a really sad moment for us. Themi was one of the people who made opportunities for others in theatre. He was a great inspiration and mentor to many young people. We worked together at Pansa and he was also a part of Twist theatre where he mentored many young performers,” she said. 
Mark Hawkins from Moving into Dance Mophatong who worked with Venturas for many years at the Playhouse Theatre said the industry has suffered a huge loss. "I can't believe that he is around anymore. It's an enormous loss to the industry. He was always around to suppose and give advise, even if we did not want to take it," said Hawkins. Venturas and Hawkins worked together on many theatre productions. "We worked extensively together and I knew him extremely well. He was always calm in stressful situations, but also excited when new projects came about. He developed so many people and brought them to the forefront. He really touched our lives and will be deeply missed," he said. Additional reporting by Alyssia Birjalal. Daily News