The former archdeacon of Durban, Reverend May Laban, said it was with mixed emotions that she entered retirement. She had given up a teaching job of 22 years to pursue a life in the ministry. “My friends at school all thought I was losing my mind because I was leaving a secure job and going into the ministry for maybe a quarter of the salary. I felt good about it.” The 66-year-old who was born in Clare Estate studied for a diploma in theology. After being ordained in 1993, she held various positions at churches in Durban and Pietermaritzburg. She has been the rector at St Paul’s since 2009. In her years in the ministry; Laban said with the advent of democracy, she saw flocks change from being all white to being very diverse. “You realise we are all children of God, irrespective of where we come from.” One of the highlights of her tenure was her farewell party last month. Laban said she saw how her work had affected people. “I leave with wonderful memories,” she said. There were lowlights, however. The 2008 xenophobic violence that rocked the country affected her. “So many of our people had to leave suddenly in buses. They would send messages that they are leaving. In the city on that day, it was like you were in a cemetery.” She said many of her congregants were from around the continent. “There was a unity in worship. We never said you are from this country or that country.” In her time in the ministry, one of the lessons she has learnt was that one cannot please everybody. Understanding other cultural norms was also something she learnt. As a woman, she had to work extra hard and noted her sermon last year in Zululand at the consecration of Bishop Monument as a highlight. It was important for her as it was a conservative congregation and they were sceptical of a woman giving a sermon. “After I had preached, I had won many friends in Zululand,” she said. She also planned to do cooking and hopes to become a master chef one day, she said with a laugh. Commenting on the current state of affairs in the country, Laban said: “The unprecedented violence in schools, abuse of women and children, state capture, the high unemployment rate and humans eating human flesh in the 21st century call for us to make a difference.” Laban said people needed to do Christ-like things to make things better. “I just hope and pray, like the rest of us in South Africa, that we will reach a place where we can really say that we are the beloved country; where everyone will have an equal share that is enough for everyone. For an end to crime.” She often had to minister to people who were traumatised by crime and wished for an end to it. “I pray for God’s blessing on a new land where we will live the rainbow nation and trust each other.” Daily News