“No country can boast of being free until it tackles gender inequality. We need the structure, ownership and management of our economy to be representative of all South Africans,” she said. The country would be “left behind” if there was no practical effort in place to include previously oppressed black women and the youth. Dlamini Zuma was speaking at the women economic empowerment engagement session at the Essence Festival Thursday morning at the Durban ICC. Implementing radical economic transformation would tackle limitations imposed by patriarchy and apartheid on black South African women, she said. Radical economic transformation would unlock potential in marginalised women and create a society of not just job seekers, but also creators, she said. “If we don’t do that, there are going to be generations of women who are still going to suffer like we do. “In South Africa, we locate  women’s economic empowerment in the context of radical economic transformation,” she said. “During apartheid black men suffered but the effects on women was three times what the men endured. The empowerment of women is urgent and it will benefit the whole society,” she said. Dlamini Zuma said South Africa’s economy was controlled by a few. This structure needed to be dismantled in order to allow those sidelined, especially black women, a stake in the economy. She implored women to organise and fight against the status quo. “Mineral resources of this country never worked for the black majority. Although mining magnates are resisting radical economic transformation, we must not fear them,” Dlamini Zuma said. She said women, particularly black women, should be part of a skills revolution in the cultural, creative, agriculture and mining industries. She said government should ensure their procurement processes are designed so that they source what they need from businesses owned by women. “We need greater financial inclusion and to actively participate in the economy,” she concluded. Daily News