As part of the South African women’s team, which won a third gold medal at the World Championships, Panchoo is also the only member of the five-member team who competed in all three winning teams (2008, 2010 and 2016) at the World Championships, and in the World Games in 2005 and 2009. It does not stop there either. She is also the only women’s world champion title holder for cue sports. Panchoo said 2016 was a breakthrough year for her because for the first time she was handed the responsibility of managing the men’s division in the province at the National Championships. “To have been given that responsibility was huge and obviously broke through barriers, the sport being predominantly male-dominated. “For women to be managing the first men’s team was a huge responsibility and a lot of pressure, but it’s right up my alley,” she said. Panchoo has been playing blackball pool for 18 years and wishes she had started at an earlier age. Engineer Panchoo is a qualified chemical engineer, business manager and business owner who has worked for some of South Africa’s biggest companies, such as SA Breweries, while playing pool as a hobby. She hoped that cue sports would eventually get Olympic status. The sport had been affiliated to bodies such as the SA Sports Confederation and Olympic Committee. “The thing that I can take out of this game is the fact that it disciplines every single participant - not only on the table, but off the table because we are affiliated to the SA Institute for Drug-Free Sport as well as the World Anti-Doping Agency. “Being affiliate members means you can be tested for drugs,” Panchoo said. She had also introduced her son to the sport, to spend time with him while she was climbing the corporate ladder. “My 10-year-old son, Neo, has followed in his mom’s footsteps and has obtained his KZN 
provincial colours for cue sports, blackball pool,” Panchoo said. She manages the U14 blackball pool team, which will compete in the first South African Junior Championships in Secunda which starts on Friday. Sameer Arjoon, 12; Neo J Panchoo, 10; Liveshan Govender, 10; and Azhar Khan, 14, will go up against teams from other provinces. This will run concurrently with the South African Wheelchair Championships. Although other teams have five players, the short notice in getting an U14 team together means that Panchoo’s team will be one player short. Woman After the Junior Championships, Panchoo will compete in the Protea Cup, at the same venue, starting on October 6, where she will be the only woman representing KZN. Players will be getting official colours. Panchoo had the following message for parents: “Don’t stifle your children’s growth with narrowed typical targets that parents tend to impose, and watch them thrive without those boundaries.” Daily News