The DA welcomed the investigation by KPMG International into work performed on behalf of the Gupta family. It resulted in the purge of seven senior executives from KPMG SA, said the DA’s David Maynier. The investigation into the audits of Gupta entities, including Linkway Trading (Pty) Ltd, a South African company controlled by the Guptas - allegedly involved in tax evasion - had established that “management of many Gupta entities responded misleadingly and inadequately to audit teams’ inquiries about the nature of related party ­relationships and the commercial substance of significant, unusual transactions”. The investigation also identified “a series of misrepresentations from the client over the period that KPMG South Africa provided tax advice”. Maynier said this meant KPMG International and KPMG SA might have information vital to the Hawks’ investigation into Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane, Atul Gupta, Ajay Gupta, Rajesh Gupta, Ronica Ragavan and ­Kamal Vasram for alleged racketeering, money laundering, assisting another to benefit from the proceeds of unlawful activities, and acquiring, possessing or using the proceeds of unlawful activities in terms of the Prevention of Organised Crime Act; and submitting false, or untrue, tax returns in terms of the Tax Administration Act. The investigation followed criminal charges laid by Maynier on July 3, after revelations that public funds meant to assist the poor were allegedly washed through a complex web of front companies and used to pay for Vega Gupta and Aakash Jahajgarhia’s lavish wedding, estimated to have cost about R30million, at Sun  City in 2013. “The investigation and the subsequent purge of seven senior executives is unlikely to be enough ‘red meat’ to stop the bleeding at KPMG SA,” Maynier said. “It now faces possible litigation from former finance minister Pravin Gordhan for its role in the forensic audit into the Sars ‘rogue unit’; an investigation into what appears to have been a see-no-evil approach to auditing by the Independent Regulatory Board of Auditors; and an investigation into its former clients for racketeering, money laundering and submitting false or misleading tax returns.” On Friday, Gordhan welcomed the withdrawal of the KPMG report on the work KPMG SA had done for Sars  on behalf of the Gupta family. Gordhan said he was surprised by the “scant regard” shown by the firm for its role in the “capture” of the revenue service and the “huge damage it had done to the livelihoods and reputations of a very professional, honest and loyal group of public servants”. “KPMG ought to have had the integrity and honesty to state that: the research and investigative unit created in Sars was legal; its activities in detecting and combating the illicit tobacco trade and other efforts aimed at bringing an end to tax evasion were within the law; (and) KPMG had no basis, except subservience to a malicious Sars management, to malign individuals and facilitate, the capture of a vital state institution,” Gordhan said. - African News Agency