Addressing thousands of attendees on Saturday at the Reed Dance ceremony at Enyokeni Royal Palace, KwaNongoma, Zwelithini said lawlessness and killings would subside if he was given three years to run the province. The Isolezwe, the Daily News’s sister newspaper, on Monday reported that the king said the myriad troubles around the province and 
the country at large was an indication the government was failing to govern and that the apartheid government had ruled better than the current dispensation. “White people ruled the country, they had tricks to do so even though they oppressed the black people. The provincial government leadership needs to consult with the whites for some lessons on how to govern,” Zwelithini said. Prince Mbonisi Zulu, the king’s spokesperson, on Monday told the Daily News he did not wish to debate nor analyse the king’s speech because it had been presented in Zulu. “We have been advised to refrain from interpreting the king’s speech. There were Zulu-speaking government officials present at the event, so they are better positioned to give you their view of His Majesty’s speech,” Zulu said. Officials warned against misinterpreting what Zwelithini said in his address. Princess Phumzile Buthelezi, IFP MPL, said the king raised concerns about the many commissions which brought no solutions to existing problems, such the Moerane Commission of Inquiry into political killings around the province. “We must be careful not to misinterpret his speech. With regards to the reference to white rule, His Majesty was highlighting how the white men worked in unity to oppress the black people without killing themselves in the process. “He is also concerned that most of the people involved in these killings are Zulu people, his people who listened to and respected him. Hence, he said if he could be in charge of the province for three years order could be restored,” Buthelezi said. Zwakele Mncwango, the DA provincial leader, also came to the king’s defence. Mncwango said the king’s message was that politicians should do “some introspection”. “I understood him as saying if you kill each other and you’re corrupt without any preventative measures to curb this, then investors will run away,” Mncwango said. Ndabezinhle Sibiya, Premier Willies Mchunu’s spokesperson, said the premier had noted Zwelithini’s address. “We always prefer to engage His Majesty privately as an elder who is always available to the members of the executive council,” Sibiya said. Daily News