The committee paid an oversight visit to the facility where senior staff members detailed existing challenges. Department head Dr Sifiso Mtshali and hospital chief executive Dr Mthetheleli Ndlangisa were present. Among the findings made was that the hospital’s mammogram machine, used for the early detection of breast cancer, was broken. A critical staff shortage had led to a reduction of beds in the maternity wing. The hospital’s two radiotherapy machines remained broken. An X-ray machine had just broken and a fluoroscope - used in the assessment of urology and surgical patients for specialised investigations - was also broken, with the possibility of it being condemned beyond repair. Dr Sudhir Prithipal, a medical specialist at the antenatal ward, said the staff shortage in his unit was a major concern. “We deal with high-risk cases and we depend on the university (UKZN) to send us registrars,” he said. The paediatric unit also operated with minimal staff. Its head, Dr Noxolo Mbadi, told the delegation of how medical officers had left the unit, and that the consultant who was with her on Thursday had to see 32 patients with interns because there was no medical officer to assist in the general paediatric ward. She said one medical officer with a needle-prick injury was taking antiretroviral therapy, which made her sick, and she was unable to work on Thursday. Mbadi said: “We need eight doctors to run the unit. At the beginning of the year, we started with six medical officers. At the beginning of the year, three medical officers wanted to write the exam that was going to allow them to specialise. From April 1, there were only four. They were overwhelmed, overexhausted and overstretched, and unable to find time to study.” Two medical officers had told her of their intention to resign if there was no addition of another medical officer on October 1. Mbadi said the remaining, devoted staff gave her the strength to carry on. Cathy Dlamini, the committee’s chairperson, looked at Mbadi and said: “This is distressful, and if a doctor looks like this something needs to be done. The serious shortage of staff and equipment is a serious concern.” Ndlangisa said equipment repairs and replacement had been done at head-office level. The DA’s Dr Imran Keeka said this kind of “destruction” of staff morale and of staff being overworked caused more negligence and more unhappy patients. “Premier Willies Mchunu and his MEC are in denial over the state of healthcare in our province. The DA sincerely hopes that the delegation will use its powers to hold them both to account for the shocking state of affairs at this hospital,” Keeka said. Daily News