These were the words of Sheldon Naicker’s mother Yona outside the Durban High Court on Thursday after her son was sentenced to a total of 33 years in prison for murdering his 84-year-old grandmother, Mariamma Govender. He was sentenced to 20 years for murder, 10 years for robbery with aggravating circumstances and three years for theft. The 20-year and 10-year sentences will run concurrently. Naicker was convicted of strangling his grandmother at her home in Phoenix in August last year, the day after he escaped from a drug rehabilitation centre at eMkhomazi. Yona spoke to the Daily News after the court proceedings, saying she was still unable to come to terms with the murder of her mother, and that her son being convicted for her murder was the hardest thing she had to deal with. Yona, who lived in Johannesburg with her husband, said her mother lived for her grandson and took him in regardless of his wrongdoings and drug addiction. She said Naicker had gone to rehab five times, but always fell back to his crippling addiction. Yona said Naicker, 21, had rejected all help. “It started with dagga, and his drug addiction escalated to sugars (a cheap form of heroin). I even put him in prison in a case I opened of malicious damage to property,” she said. Yona said her son never showed remorse even when the judge sentenced him. “Drugs do that to people. It is like he is living in his own world. He will be better off in prison,” said Yona. When she was informed about Naicker’s escape from the rehabilitation centre, she said she knew there would be problems. “I immediately phoned my mother and told her to lock her gate and doors, and not to allow him in,” she said. Yona, a mother of three sons, said Naicker was the only troublesome one, but deep down she believed he was a loving person. “He must pay and be punished for what he did. She was my mother and to him she was a loving grandmother. We have suffered a great loss. I hope he will use the time in jail to rehabilitate himself,” she said. Govender’s tenant Lynelle Emelee Munsami testified that the grandmother had told her about Naicker’s escape from the centre, and she too warned her to lock the gate and doors. Munsami’s husband Mervyn Moodley, who also testified, said when he and his wife returned home on the evening of the incident, he had seen Govender’s clothes still on the washing line, so he removed them. Moodley said he saw that the padlock on Govender’s gate was missing. He said he found her dead on a sofa in the house. According to the indictment, Naicker was unhappy with the R400 Govender had given him, so he strangled her and left with her TV which he sold for R800 to buy drugs. A state witness, Emmanuel Pillay, testified that he and Naicker had escaped from a rehabilitation centre and sold their clothes to get money for train tickets to Durban. He said  they sold more clothes in Durban for money to buy train tickets to Phoenix. They then walked to a house in the area and Naicker told him to wait nearby. Naicker returned and told him that his grandmother had only given him R400, so he took the television set. Naicker had, through his lawyer Maggie Pillay, pleaded not guilty and said he merely pushed his grandmother. Passing sentence, Judge President Achmat Jappie said what Naicker did resulted in tragedy. He said the family lost an elderly member. “You lost a grandmother because of your craving for drugs. “It is always a difficult task when one has to sentence a young man whose life has not even begun, and because of crime would spend the best years of his life behind bars,” said Jappie. Daily News