Durban - The Disaster Management Team in KwaZulu-Natal is counting the costs of the damage caused after gale-force winds and heavy rain lashed the province on Saturday. The Chetty family in Chats­worth lost part of their roof during the storm. Lutchmee, 84, and her husband, Perumal Chetty, 79, were in their bedroom when they felt the room shake, heard screeching noises and then “a few bangs”. Water began to seep through the ceiling boards and down the side of the walls. Their daughter, Vanessa Chetty, said they were unaware part of their roof had been blown off until residents alerted them. The incident left them traumatised. Plastic packets covered their possessions as they braced themselves for more rain last night. “We were still trying to find the source of the leak and mop up when residents notified us. My parents’ bed is in the corner of the room. What would have happened if the roof and wall collapsed on them? Luckily it flew off. Pieces of the roof were everywhere,” Vanessa Chetty said. Councillor Tony Govender said two other roofs from adjoining flats had been partially damaged. Repair work He said disaster management was notified and repair work would be conducted during the week. In the interim, DV Function hire would supply a tarpaulin to cover the hole in the roof. Nomusa Dube-Ncube, the MEC of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta), said they were taking stock of the two days of heavy rain and strong winds while mop-up operations were under way. No deaths were reported. “Disaster teams have logged and responded to several incidents in Ugu, eThekwini and Ladysmith, which impacted on both public infrastructure and private property and disrupted lives in most parts of the province. The interim assessments reveal that houses had roofs blown away and trees falling over, blocking roads and damaging property and vehicles,” she said . Dube-Ncube said all reported incidents were being attended to by disaster management teams who were also assessing the long-term impact of damage to roads, public infrastructure and facilities as well as private properties. The South African Weather Service recorded wind speeds in Margate (81km/* , gusting 118km/* ); King Shaka International Airport (74km/* , gusting 111km/* ); Durban (56km/* , gusting 111km/* ) and Pennington (56km/* , gusting 111km/* ). Prem Balram, spokesperson of Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa), said in a two-hour period on Saturday they attended to 252 calls. Balram said a pedestrian was injured in Phoenix after he was struck on the head by a branch from a tree which had broken off. At the Masjid-e-Yusuf in Parlock workshippers were trapped inside when a tree fell and blocked the exit. Worshippers hacked away some of the roots to open the doors. A rope was attached to a bakkie which pulled the tree aside. Several windows were blown out from high-rise buildings and street traders lost some of their wares and goods along the Durban beachfront said Mike Bloxham, a resident. Daily News