DURBAN - PORT Shepstone will soon get its own film studio as an international producer sets up shop in the “beautiful coastal city”. New York-based film producer Dexter Davis, who heads D Street Media Group, will break ground on the project, called South Coast Film Studios, next year. “In 2014 I was in Dubai for their international film festival and was approached by Senzo Zindela. We had a meeting and eventually he asked if I would be interested in being a guest of his Ugu Film Festival (this weekend). I eventually decided I would come to Port Shepstone where it’s held and that’s when I discovered this beautiful coastal city. I was so impressed with it’s natural beauty and fell in love with the people I met,” said Davis. Last year Davis was back in the town on a location scout, and that was when the idea for a movie studio came up. While Davis is keeping the costs and the artists’ illustrations of what the studio will look like under wraps, he said it would make a definite impact on the Port Shepstone community. “The economic impact of a movie studio can’t be disputed, it’s going to have a substantial effect on the entire South Coast economy. We see the South Coast Film Studio as being a beacon of light for the community and an opportunity not only for people working directly in the film business, but it’s an opportunity to train young people in an array of different industries which support film and television production. “Location-wise I believe Port Shepstone has everything and more for a studio to attract productions from all over the world. We happen to have a few tricks up our sleeve to make it a world class destination to make movies and television and that’s super exciting,” said Davis. A feasibility study will be undertaken soon, and construction is expected to take a year. Davis’s company specialises in art-house, international and foreign language films and is presently working on Blue Mauritius, which will be shot in Cape Town next year and stars Gerard Depardieu alongside KZN star Pearl Thusi. Senzo Zindela, founder of the Ugu Film Festival, which is taking place this weekend, said they were excited about the development. “We are in the process of securing long-term funding that will finance the project throughout. Partnerships such as the one we have with Dexter Davis will stand us in good stead as he brings a wealth of knowledge capital to the project,” said Zindela. He said the studio would contribute to the KZN economy, but would not necessarily compete with Durban. “We obviously would love to be the preferred film destination, combined with being KZN’s tourism gem, and hope to collaborate with Durban.”  The Independent On Saturday 