It was rumoured he was leaving the country after 20 years as the head of the organisation. “But the rumours are just not true,” he said. Although he is going to have to go to Cambridge University in England to defend his thesis for his masters degree on sustainability next year, he will be back, as “there are a lot of exciting challenges in conser­vation and development in South Africa”. He was sad to be leaving iSimangaliso,“but change is good”, he said. “Ideally, after five years, people should take three months out and do something completely different to grow. “I am going to study and will come back with a lot of new ideas for the next chapter.” He is not quite sure what or where that will be, but it will involve his great passions of conservation and development. Zaloumis will spend the next three months at iSimangaliso, doing the fieldwork for his thesis, then head to Cambridge, handing in his thesis next July. He will have to return should court action go ahead during his absence against Andre Slade, owner of the now-closed Sodwana Bay Guest House, who declined a reservation, saying “we do not accommodate blacks or government employees any longer”. The case had been brought by the South African Human Rights Commission, with Zaloumis providing the founding affidavit. While the guest house had no affiliation to iSimangaliso, being 5km outside the park boundaries, Zaloumis said in his affidavit that the “humiliating, hurtful and discriminatory” comments flew in the 
face of everything iSimangaliso was striving to achieve to improve the lives of people in the area. iSimangaliso is the country’s first UN Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation World Heritage Site - a comparative study done for the world heritage application concluded there was no other place quite like it on the planet. Instrumental in establishing world heritage status, Zaloumis has a string of awards, including prestigious international honours, for implementing a model for protected area management that puts communities at the centre of conservation strategies. iSimangaliso would always be a work in progress as society changed and economies shifted, he said when he received the World Wildlife Fund Living Planet Award in 2015. iSimangaliso had come a long way with the restoration of the natural environment and the implementation of ­local livelihood strategies, and it ­offered hope to other protected areas. However, the limited livelihood choices of the region’s 640000 people would become fewer as economies tightened, unsustainable practices continued and the impacts of climate change began to be felt, he said. iSimangaliso was at a turning point with the advent of climate change, global warming and the many social and economic changes, he said during his acceptance speech. Poverty was a major problem, “and people are tempted to believe the hollow promises of the smoke-stack industries to provide the jobs they desperately need. Romantic notions of a return to the land also challenge the existence of protected areas like iSimangaliso”. Zaloumis transformed the region from a declining tourist economy into a flourishing and growing destination capable of competing with some of the ­finest global attractions, a park statement said. When iSimangaliso first started, 350 people were directly involved in tourism: now there are 8000, as well as 2000 in ­temporary jobs. iSimangaliso had recorded the highest growth in KZN in terms of domestic and international visitors, and average tourist spend, the Minister of Environmental Affairs, Dr Edna Molewa, said when she listed Zaloumis’s many successes in a statement. The number of tourism businesses in the region had grown by 86%, and there were three community-owned tourism lodges in the park, while communities had been supported to acquire a tourist boat to operate cruises, turtle tours, game drives and other excursions, she said. Game last seen a century ago on the banks of St Lucia had been reintroduced, while other work had seen “the ­separation of commercial forestry plantations from the park and the systematic rehabilitation of the eastern and western shores of iSimangaliso”. Eighty-seven people had received financial and other support for university studies and more than 200 businesses had been mentored and supported, with 106 getting seed capital and 3 000 crafters, artists and tour guides being trained. Daily News