Nursing his wounds at the Prince Mshiyeni Hospital, Victor Pillay, 41, said he had been walking along Tiger Rocks Drive in Isipingo Beach on his way to work when a dog suddenly pounced on him and bit him on the thigh. A second dog appeared and bit him on his arm causing him to fall. “It happened so quickly. All I could do was scream for dear life. I thought I was a dead man. “I can still picture them with their mouths open, coming for me. I was bitten on my thigh, arms and back,” said Pillay, a father of two teenage girls. Amith Rugbur, a resident in the area and witness to the attack, said the dogs were on the road when he drove by. He saw Pillay walking along the road, and then heard him screaming. He looked in his rear-view mirror and saw the dogs running towards Pillay. Water “I turned my van around and rushed to help him. The dogs were on top of him. “I stopped my van next to Pillay and threw water from a bottle at the dogs. I then threw the plastic bottle at them to try to scare them off. “I could not get out of my van because they then focused their attention on me. They jumped on my doors and began barking. “I am certain they would have killed him had I not intervened. “We were in shock. The dogs left when the owner called them,” Rugbur said. Bystanders near the Tiger Rocks swimming pool rushed to aid Pillay when they heard him scream for help. Kenny Naidoo said Pillay’s “fear and survival instincts” had kicked in and before Pillay realised it he had already crawled through the thick bush up a steep embankment. Naidoo said onlookers helped Pillay down from the embankment. “This is not the first and it won’t be the last time something like this is going to happen. We have spoken to the owners before this because the dogs have been terrorising neighbours’ dogs and members of the public. A young boy was bitten,” Naidoo said. The owners of the dogs, who declined to be named, said they heard about the incident but when they came out, the victim had already been taken to hospital in an ambulance. They are not sure how the dogs got loose. Daily News