Two municipalities in northern KwaZulu-Natal, the Emnambithi/Ladysmith and Indaka Local Municipalities, were last year amalgamated and named after Duma in recognition of the 90-year-old’s role in the Struggle to liberate South Africa. The nonagenarian’s wrinkled face glowed with excitement when he met Zuma on Sunday. Zuma was in Duma’s hometown of Ladysmith to address the ANC Youth League’s 73rd anniversary celebrations at the Ezakheni Township. The men had served together in MK, and both had been imprisoned on Robben Island. When Duma arrived at the venue, a group of MK Military Veterans Association members offered him a military salute as a sign of respect. Duma heaped praise on Zuma and the president shared story after story about Duma’s heroic role in the MK struggle. Duma said those who were calling for Zuma to step down were out of order. He said the country should appreciate that unlike some presidents on the continent Zuma had not turned to “spilling blood” in an attempt to hold on to power. “He has said he will relinquish power, and I don’t know what more you want from him. “We must appreciate that he has not refused to relinquish power. We appreciate that he did not create tensions that led to the spilling of blood in the country,” said Duma. A frail-looking Duma spoke of his first encounter with Zuma when the latter had led a group of young people in an attack on a beer hall in Durban. He said this was when he realised that Zuma was “a man who was committed to the liberation Struggle”. Drinking He said this was when the ANC had instructed its volunteers to stop “our fathers” from wasting their time drinking beer and instead participate in the Struggle. He said he and Zuma had played a pivotal role in the activities of the MK, with Zuma deployed as an MK marshal, specialising in protecting Nelson Mandela from apartheid police whenever Mandela was in Natal to address political events. “He would also arrange a secret exit for Mandela, who had to hurry away after delivering a speech as SBs (Security Branch members) were watching and were trying to arrest Mandela. The latter would never enter or leave a venue through the same exits that everyone else was using,” he said. Zuma deserved the title MK commander-in-chief as he had carried the armed struggle, he said. “He is not an imposter. It is in his blood. He is in charge of MK and he was a founding member,” Duma said. Zuma said Duma, as an MK volunteer, had been assigned to distract police so that Mandela could leave an ANC venue without being arrested. “I remember when Mandela finished addressing an ANC gathering in Pietermaritzburg, (Duma) created a disruption by pretending to have an epileptic seizure and people rushed to help him. Police had been distracted by that commotion and Mandela left the venue unnoticed,” said Zuma. Daily News