Dr Naidoo was honoured at the Faculty of Arts and Design’s graduation ceremony held at the Fred Crookes Sport Centre, Steve Biko Campus. Alan Khan, senior director of Corporate Affairs at DUT, said Naidoo was awarded an honorary Doctor of Philosophy degree in recognition of his outstanding contribution to the fight for human dignity for all, his community and student activism, and his commitment to the eradication of poverty and injustice through multiple national, African and global movements. “Dr Naidoo was part of the group of school pupils from Chatsworth High School who boycotted in solidarity with their peers to protest against a discriminatory education system which put black pupils at the bottom of the pile. He was one of the strategic and administrative role players in fighting for social justice,” said Khan. Naidoo’s passion lies in environmental rights and he thoroughly enjoyed his time being the head of Greenpeace, a non-governmental, global organisation that campaigns to change the attitudes and behaviour of people, to protect and conserve the environment. He serves as the Board Chairperson of Africans Rising for Justice, Peace and Dignity. He is also a board member of  climate justice group 350.org and is an ambassador to the Southern African Faith Communities Environment Institute. Naidoo is also setting up the Institute for the Advancement of Creative Maladjustment. Commenting on his graduation, Naidoo said recognition and honours were always deeply humbling. “Nothing I have achieved or done in my life has been an individual effort. My work was always done with others who have shared my values and made immense sacrifices themselves, so all of the individual recognition I receive is a reflection not only of me, but of so many values I have held important my whole life. “To receive this from an institution which once ran evening classes to assist students complete their matric, I am so grateful. I was expelled for partaking in boycotts and I would never had been able to finish my schooling without their help.” Daily News