Durban - Several properties were destroyed due to gale force winds that swept through KwaZulu-Natal over the weekend. A meeting to determine the extent of the damage caused by the strong winds was held on Sunday convened by mayor, Zandile Gumede, which included Ward Councillors, Provincial Disaster Management Team, Ward Committees, Community Mobilisers, Operation Sukuma Sakhe and Amakhosi. The team which is made up of municipal departments will provide immediate relief to affected communities. Trees fallen over. Inclement weather conditions are expected to continue in the province and Gumede appealed to residents in flood prone areas to be cautious and to move to their nearest community hall for safety. She also appealed to religious leaders and individuals to open places of worship and their homes for displaced people. “Our joint response and relief team is already on the ground, the mop-up has already begun in areas where roads are blocked and displaced communities are being accommodated in community halls. I want to appeal to residents to be patient as we are responding to each every case that has been reported thus far,” Gumede said. The Durban Christian Centre (DCC), Jesus Dome was also affected. More than a year ago after the church burnt down, a tent was set up until a permanent church structure could be built in October 2017. The tent that was the temporary home for congregants to worship, was blown away. On their Facebook page, the church informed congregants that the service will be held in the Family Life Centre. DCC tent blown over. Ron Steele, DCC spokesperson said they are not planning on erecting the tent again because of costs. Instead they will continue using the Family Life Centre, which will probably have three services in order to accommodate everyone. “We are concentrating on building the church in the next six weeks or so,” Steele said. “We are trying to save money where we can.” Steele said the fire that burnt down the church was caused by an electrical fault while a huge storm had caused the tent to fall. “There is obviously a devil out there who doesn’t like us to further the Kingdom of God,” Steele said. He also said that the pastors are very positive and that despite the setback, they cannot wait for their comeback. Earlier, the KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Cognitive Governance and Traditional Affairs, Nomusa Dube-Ncube, said disaster teams responded to many incidents in Ugu, eThekwini and Ladysmith. There was damage to both public and private property. A tree had fallen on a car. “The interim assessments reveal that houses had roofs blown away, trees falling over and blocking roads and damaging property and vehicles,” Dube-Ncube said. “All reported incidents are being attended to promptly by our disaster management teams which provided immediate disaster relief. We are still assessing the long-term impact of damages to roads, public infrastructure and facilities as well as private properties and we continue to offer assistance to all concerned,” she continued. Dube-Ncube also said that the department is responding to emergencies on the ground with a shorter response time and with more relief packages. Dube-Ncube also conveyed her condolences to the Zungu family in the King Cetshwayo district municipality where a family member was electrocuted and died while another was hospitalised when a tree fell onto electricity wires. Daily News