Durban - Thousands are expected to flock to the Durban Port Festival this weekend where the South African Navy will host public tours of its naval ships.
The festival is hosted by Transnet National Ports Authority, in partnership with eThekwini Municipality, MSC Cruises, African Marine Solutions (AMSOL) and the South African Navy. The festival will begin on Saturday, September 9 and will end the next day. Visitors to the festival will be able to board the SAS Isaac Dyobha and the SAS Galeshewe at the N Shed passenger terminal in the Port
of Durban – the area of the port from which cruise ships usually depart. The SA Navy will also have its diving tank stationed at N Shed for the public to interact with SA Navy divers. In addition Transnet National Ports Authority tugboats will be on display throughout the weekend of the Durban Port Festival. The South African Navy band will perform precision drills to entertain crowds queuing to board the navy vessels stationed at N Shed. Picture/Philip Wilson Organisers anticipate long queues and have advised the public to arrive early and
enjoy the array of other waterside and landside activities taking place as part of the port festival. Oupa Moraile, Public Relations Officer, Naval Base Durban said the Durban Port Festival was an
opportunity to bring the South African Navy closer to the community and showcase career opportunities that
are available within the navy. Members of the public will be able to board an SA navy ship at the Durban Port Festival this weekend. Picture/Philip Wilson "This is even more important for Durban as we are in the process of upgrading the existing Naval Station back to a fully operational Naval Base,” he said. TNPA’s Durban Port Manager, Moshe Motlohi, said the idea behind the Durban Port Festival is to bring
communities closer to the ports. “Port access has been restricted since the advent of the global ISPS code of safety and security for ports a few years ago, and as a result communities have become disconnected from the ports. While we do need to adhere to these requirements, we are also aware of the need to develop and nurture relationships with our communities and ensure that they are exposed to the work we do and the opportunities that exist for them through the ports,” he said. Daily News