Durban - Residents at a block of government-built, low-cost flats in H-section, uMlazi, are living in fear after they were attacked by a mob who say the flats were not meant for them.
The attack, which is believed to be the result of a housing dispute, has flat residents having to seek shelter elsewhere. Zafika Gambushe said it had been barely a few hours since he moved into what he believed to be his new flat when he came under attack. Gambushe said he had planned for his wife and daughter to move in with him, but this was now unlikely after yesterday’s events. He said at about 7pm on Tuesday a group of about 30 people from across the street, pelted the block of flats with rocks. Gambushe was outside, watching events unfold. He said he saw some residents fleeing. Seeing that tensions were reaching boiling point, Gambushe, who works as a security guard, fled to a friend’s place. He returned to his flat the following morning to find it had been gutted by fire. A fridge, bed and clothes were some of his belongings that had been burnt. “My mind is stuck at the moment and I don’t know what my next move is. I can’t rely on my friend as he has his own problems,” Gambushe said. Other residents also told of how they were living in constant fear and could not sleep at night. One resident, who asked to not be named because she feared she would be attacked, said people forcibly entered her room and destroyed her belongings. She now has to depend on neighbours’ generosity. A resident of H-section said people were angry because the flats were meant for locals who had lost their houses because of rain damage or flooding. The people who were living in the block were not the proper beneficiaries, he said. The man said this came after various failed attempts between the municipality and the residents, to resolve the matter. “We told officials, ‘If you continue to put people in the flats you will be putting their lives in danger’,” he said. The man said the residents were very angry at what had happened. The Daily News sent questions to eThekwini Municipality, but had not received a response by the time of going to press. SAPS spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said no arrests had been made yet. A case of malicious damage to property had been opened, she said. “The motive for the incident is unknown at this stage,” Mbhele said. Daily News