Durban - Mandeni Mayor Siphesihle Zulu was left stranded in the Mt Edgecombe area on Tuesday after his four bodyguards were arrested by the Hawks for allegedly carrying illegal firearms, including an AK-47 assault rifle. The distraught Zulu told the Daily News that he now feared for his life given the political volatility in the province. He said he had returned from Gauteng to attend an ANC meeting in Durban. His bodyguards were waiting for him at King Shaka International Airport where he landed at about 10am. “The information I have is that they (Hawks) were already at the airport, but they did not approach my bodyguards. In the Mt Edgecombe area they pulled us off the road with guns drawn. They dumped me in the middle of nowhere to drive myself to the meeting. What kind of law enforcers would abandon a person without his guards given the ongoing political killings in the province? I believe this was a plan to attract media headlines and tarnish my name in the process,” Zulu said. He confirmed that one of the firearms carried by his bodyguards was an AK-47 rifle, but denied that it was illegal. Two of his guards were contracted to a private security company while the other two were municipal employees. “It is clear that there’s a political ploy to tarnish my name. I no longer trust the police. I don’t have bodyguards as we speak and … there’s no report from them (police) to support their allegations that the firearms were illegal. If these guns are illegal, then they should hold the police and the company that contracted the guards responsible. This thing has dirty politics written all over it,” he said. Mandeni acting municipal manager Sizwe Khuzwayo said guards were contracted after security and criminal verification checks. He said municipal and private guards were vetted to ensure they met legal requirements. “We have the security cluster unit which deals with such vetting,” he said. Hawks spokesperson Captain Simphiwe Mhlongo said the National Bureau for Illegal Firearms Crimes and Priority Violent Crimes, and the National Intervention Unit members, had arrested the guards for unlawful possession of firearms. He said four pistols, one rifle and live rounds of ammunition were seized. “A blue light was also found in one of the vehicles they were using. The seized firearms will be sent for ballistic testing to ascertain if they were used in the commission of any crime in the country. The arrested suspects, aged 29, 39 and 40, are due to appear in the Durban Magistrate’s Court today,” Mhlongo said. Police Minister Fikile Mbalula last week reportedly said South Africa’s numerous private security companies posed a danger to society and were in urgent need of regulation. Mbalula said a bill to this effect was awaiting the signature of President Jacob Zuma. Companies found flouting the law would lose their operating licences, said Mbalula, reacting to a video that went viral on social media showing two private security guards seated in a vehicle brandishing guns and making death threats. He said criminals had found a loophole in getting access to weapons by registering security companies, adding that the Private Security Industry Regulatory Authority, which falls under his ministry, had been instructed to do a nationwide audit of those security   companies that offered close protection services. Daily News