Durban - The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Education has agreed to meet the governing body (SGB) of Assegai Primary School in Wentworth, Durban, after the SGB and parents protested outside the school. Teaching has ground to a halt for more than a week after parents voiced their anger at the acting principal, Odette Abrahams Field, being overlooked for the post of principal. Parents on Tuesday too their grievances to the department's main offices in the Durban city centre. Abrahams Field took on the acting principal position two years ago. She was the deputy principal for 24 years and head of department for 10 years. She took over from Trevor Webster, who served as the school’s principal for more than 25 years. At the start of the third term, parents took the department to task after it was announced that Thenjiwe Ndlovu, an uMlazi high-school teacher, was the new principal. Parents protested and lessons were disrupted for three days. A meeting was held with the SGB and members of the department, where it was decided that an investigation into Ndlovu’s selection process would be undertaken. READ: Parents shut down school over appointment of prinicipal According to the governing body’s chairperson, Andre de Bruin, officials were expected to provide the SGB with the results of the investigation, but to date no comment had come from the department. “Again, this is not an issue about race as it is being made out to seem. We have no problem with the incumbent principal’s skin colour. We are merely saying that the department should be open and honest about the process. They told us they would investigate, but we’ve had nothing from them.” De Bruin said they believed that Abrahams Field was suitably qualified for the post. “Mrs Abrahams Field has a Level M7. That equates to an honours degree in teaching, whereas Ms Ndlovu has a Level 1 qualification with seven years’ experience. She is not equipped to be a principal. A total of 28 candidates were chosen for this post with three shortlisted. All we want is for them to be honest with us.” They were further aggrieved by claims that Ndlovu had visited the school and was chased away. De Bruin denied Ndlovu had ever been to the school during this term. On Monday, a delegation from the EFF arrived at the school to show support for parents. One EFF member said they agreed with the SGB’s move to keep the school closed until grievances were addressed. “It is only fair to support each other and speak out against allegations of corruption. “People should be employed on merit. “As a parent, you want your child to be taught - and adequately so - by those properly qualified to do so. I believe this is a valid fight and we cannot just accept what is given to us just for the sake of it,” he said. The teachers have been reporting to school every day, but sit outside, across the road. Education spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa confirmed they were told by a delegation from the department to meet the SGB and find a solution. “The governing body was a part of the facilitation of the process. For them to turn around and now accuse people it is all confusing. “We will not sit and look away. We have established a team to clean up this mess the SGB has created,” he said. Mthethwa said the SGB wanted to create an impression that they were unaware of the selection process. The department is due to meet them this week. Meanwhile, parents are hopeful that the matter will be resolved. “The kids are missing out on so much school now. This is not good,” said one parent. Another parent said worksheets should be sent home for pupils to keep busy. Daily News