Durban - Ndlunkulu waseMatheni Inkosi Thabisile Zulu was elected as the first woman to co-chair the House as deputy chairperson in a swearing in of new Provincial House of Traditional Leaders. The seat for chairperson was unopposed, which saw chairperson Inkosi Phathisizwe Chiliza re-elected to keep his position. Justice Isaac Madondo, deputy judge president of the KZN Division of the High Court presided over the ceremony while Willies Mchunu, Premier of KwaZulu-Natal, who officiated the ceremony, welcomed the elections. He believes that the elections are a testament to the fact that democracy is alive and well in the institution of traditional leadership in KZN. “The election of the first female Deputy Chairperson shows that women have a place within this important institution,” Mchunu said. “As the provincial government, we are committed to working with the newly elected leadership to fulfil our responsibility to our communities as they are an invaluable partner in our efforts to advance development,” continued Mchunu. Nomusa Dube-Ncube, MEC for Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) reacted to the ceremony by saying, “Traditional leaders of KZN deserve applause from all of us for setting the example by electing a female in the second most senior position within this institution and in so doing amakhosi have launched a serious assault on the false image created by the colonial and apartheid regimes of the role of women within traditional leadership. This proves beyond doubt that the work of creating a non-sexist and non-racial society is one that amakhosi within our province take seriously.” Eight members who will serve in the Executive Committee and the members who will serve on behalf of the province in the National House of Traditional Leaders were also elected. The province has the largest number of traditional healers in South Africa and amakhosi are a key governance structure that plays an important role in facilitating service delivery and development in the province. Daily News