In a startling statement, Mkhize said he felt it was necessary to speak out for the first time about how Zuma had in 2005 revealed to him that he had sexual intercourse with Fezekile Ntsukela Kuzwayo, a daughter of their late comrade. “I must at the outset express my discomfort and reservations on publicly talking about this matter. I have, over the years, avoided doing so because of my appreciation of Fezeka’s right to privacy and human dignity. I also believe that like any woman, she is entitled to justice, fairness and equality.” Mkhize was the Economic Development MEC in KZN when Zuma told him about the incident. Yesterday, he issued a seven-page statement in reaction to City Press questions on whether he had tried to convince Kuzwayo to drop the charges against Zuma. On Sunday, the paper reported on the content of a book, Khwezi: The remarkable story of Fezekile Ntsukela Kuzwayo, written by veteran radio journalist Redi Tlhabi and expected to be launched soon. According to the City Press, the book revealed that before and during the rape trial, Kuzwayo, whose late father, Judson Kuzwayo, was Zuma and Mkhize’s close friend in exile during the liberation struggle, had faced constant intimidation at the hands of Zuma’s supporters, which prompted her to leave the country. Kuzwayo died last year. Reacting to the allegations, Mkhize denied persuading Kuzwayo to drop the rape charges. He said he had not been prepared to talk about the case at first, but had decided to open up after learning of the book and the City Press story implicating him. Trial Mkhize said he had chosen not to deal with the media at the time of the trial as he understood the matter was sub-judice. “I had to allow for the legal processes to unfold and co-operate with any formal investigation if and when required to do so,” Mkhize said. He said in 2005 he received a call from Zuma telling him that “he had made a terrible mistake of having sexual relations with Fezeka”. “I was shocked by this because I had always been under the impression that Fezeka was like a daughter to both of us,” he said. Mkhize said Zuma had told him that he and Kuzwayo were in an intimate relationship “that had built up over a period”. “In fact, he indicated that they had been conversing for a while,” he said. But he said he would never have expected Zuma to have an intimate relationship with someone they both regarded as a daughter. He said after Zuma had told him that Kuzwayo had intended to lay criminal charges, he had asked Zuma why this was the case if the sex had been consensual. “He (Zuma) said he himself wasn’t sure what could have upset her as he was under the impression that all was well between them. “He said Fezeka had not raised any issues or complaint with him. He appeared to be puzzled about what had gone wrong between them,” said Mkhize. After listening to Zuma, Mkhize said, he contacted Kuzwayo’s mother, Beauty, in Durban and arranged for her to travel to Johannesburg to be with her daughter. The book revealed that as part of the intimidation against Kuzwayo, Zuma would arrive at the Johannesburg High Court accompanied by his traditional healer from KwaZulu-Natal. When contacted about the allegations, Zuma’s spokesman, Bongani Ngqulunga, said: “The matter was dealt with in court in an open trial. There is therefore nothing new to add.” Daily News