This was the view of Research ICT Africa experts reacting to news that people can use their data bundles for longer. It was expected that the regulations would come into effect next month. This comes after this year’s DataMustFall movement, which was led by DJ Thabo Molefe - popularly known as Tbo Touch - who raised the issue of high data prices in the country. The resulting uproar led to parliamentary hearings into the costs. Arthur Goldstuck, managing director of World Wide Worx, said cellphone networks were unlikely to object to the extension of the expiry dates for data. Many data packages could be carried over to the next month, giving them a 60-day life cycle. “No one is talking about the fact that bundles of under 50MB can expire in 10 days. If that is allowed to stand, it is nothing less than disgraceful, as it forces those who can only afford small bundles to use them up quickly and to buy new bundles every 10 days, which they often cannot afford. Nothing in the new regulations is designed to protect the poor,” Goldstuck said. Broc Rademan and Onkoaame Mothobi, of Research ICT Africa, said the problem with extending expiry dates was that operators could say this could lead to higher costs for them. They said this could result in data prices increasing even further. Mothobi said the majority of South Africans used small, prepaid data bundles. Rademan said the two-month period before the extended expiry dates kicked in was intended to give operators a chance to make comments and give input on what needed to be done. However, the regulations would be implemented regardless of the operators’ views on the matter. “On paper it seems like a win for the consumer. However, considering usage patterns it looks like a false win,” Rademan said. He added that the benefits would only be seen in packages of 1 gigabyte and higher. Mothobi said operators normally made data packages with a short life span cheaper than those with a long lifespan. He said a 1 gigabyte data bundle with a one-week expiry was cheaper than one with a one-month expiry date. Daily News