A Chatsworth fisherman, critically injured after crashing into a lamp-post lying on the road in July, died in hospital on Monday night. Marlin Pillay, 26, and a friend, Shane Madaray, 28, were on their way to a fishing trip when they crashed into the pole, “deliberately placed” along the M1 Higginson Highway near the Croftdene off-ramp. The car veered down a bank and into an informal settlement. It is alleged that Pillay had been dragged about 100m from the crash scene and robbed of his belongings by a gang of 'night stalkers' who use the cover of darkness to place obstacles in the road to force unwitting motorists to stop. Emergency teams arrived at the scene, stabilised the men and took them to hospital. Tow truck drivers could not get the car out of the informal settlement because of the terrain, and the family had to hire a crane to move it. Omi Nair, of the Crossmoor Crisis Committee, said that by the time the crane arrived, the car was stripped completely. She said there had been at least 10 other similar incidents since the crash. READ: Durban motorists at the mercy of lurking night stalkers Pillay was a well-known figure in the community because he was a part of the patrol team in Crossmoor. “I met Marlin when our area was faced with land invasions in March. He joined our team and very diligently took on the responsibilities given to him,” Nair said. “It was really heartening to see one so young getting involved in civic affairs where the norm is to leave it to the oldies to handle,” she said. Nair added that the community was extremely saddened by his death. “Our sincere condolences go to his family and friends and may they have the strength and fortitude to see them through this most difficult time.” Nair said Madaray sustained severe spinal injuries. Sanjay Ramrattan, spokesperson of the Pillay family, said: “This was senseless.” He added that the family was very upset and angry. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said a case of culpable homicide would be opened if the post-mortem results showed that Pillay died of injuries sustained in the accident. Daily News