Speaking to the Daily News  Kwanele Ncalane, the spokesperson for Mxolisi Kaunda, MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, said the deployment of a specialised unit would be one of the measures taken into consideration in the wake of a new wave of crime in the area. In the past three months, there have been at least three murders, with gun battles raging every weekend. On Sunday, a 20-year-old man was killed. According to a relative, Waylon Hutchinson was sitting in a car with his two cousins, aged 17 and 19, and two friends when a VW Polo drove past them on Richard Winn Road. Shots were fired. Hutchinson was shot, along with his two cousins. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said Hutchinson died of his injuries in hospital. “Charges of attempted murder and murder were opened at Wentworth police station,” she said. Ncalane said Wentworth was one of the areas identified by Kaunda for special intervention. “The MEC has identified Wentworth for a number of programmes, including 
anti-drug and substance-abuse initiatives,” he said. Various approaches to combating crime would be considered, in particular, looking into the need for a gang unit, Ncalane added. This would be done in consultation with police from Wentworth and Brighton Beach. For Rozanne Cockman, hearing about another shooting in Wentworth stirs painful memories. Chadleigh David, Cockman’s son, died after being wounded in a drive-by shooting in Bute Lane two months ago. David was allegedly lured out of his flat and was shot as he walked out of the property. Speaking to the Daily News, Cockman said her family was still struggling to come to terms with David’s death. “My son was killed two months and two weeks ago. The memories are still fresh. When I hear that there has been another shooting, my heart goes out to that family.” According to Cockman, despite some residents knowing who the men responsible for David’s death were, to date there have been no arrests. A few days before David’s death, Llewellyn Edwards was gunned down outside a nightclub in Jacobs. The two men accused of being responsible for Edwards’s death, father and son Joseph Errol Ernest, 45, and Juade Joseph Ernest, 20, are out on bail. Desmond D’Sa, a community activist and Wentworth Development Forum chairperson, said it was high time residents stood together. D’Sa said he was also concerned about the number of incidents where people had been arrested in connection with the shootings and then released. “There needs to be an investigation into why these people are getting off. Some of them even boast that they can buy off prosecutors and police. These cases get thrown out of court because they claim there is lack of evidence or mistaken identity. To these youngsters, life is cheap and they do it because they can get away with it. Something also needs to be said about these mothers and families who protect their sons knowing that their sons are involved in the sale of drugs,” D’Sa said. Dr Ismail Moola, a psychologist, said: “Youngsters tend to look up to these people in society and use them as role models. They see how lucrative the business of drug sales can be and how these people have new cars and nice clothing. (They) see these men as ‘Robin Hoods’ in the community. “You also find that there are those who benefit from these drug lords, who buy groceries and take care of the community,” he said. Daily News