Durban - Corruption, among other things, is stagnating the military veterans’ housing programme since it was mooted nine years ago.
As a result, some veterans regret ever taking part in the fight for democracy. The province has 4100 military veterans, according to lists provided by the ANC’s uMkhonto we Sizwe (MK) and the PAC’s Azanian People’s Liberation Army (Apla). Dumezweni Ntuli, a former MK operative, said he never expected to be renting a one-bedroom outbuilding in squalid conditions after spending 13years in different countries. “I’ve been waiting for the house since around 2011 as I don’t qualify for a bond. My observation is that the money for the houses is there, but individuals want a piece of the pie. I had hoped that when we attained democracy, people’s lives - including mine - would have been better. “To think that I have spent all those years for this it pains me very much because it’s not as if the government is not introducing programmes. It’s individuals who delay these programmes because they want a share,” Ntuli said. Ntuli works for the eThekwini Municipality’s electricity unit where he is responsible for fixing traffic lights. He left South Africa when he was 20 years old, travelling from Swaziland to various countries until he landed in East Germany where he did military training. He lives with his wife in a backyard in KwaMashu, while his two children and three grandchildren live in another part of the township. Madoda Mbhamali, of Ingwavuma in northern KwaZulu-Natal, shared Ntuli’s sentiments. “Corruption is indeed the cancer that’s frustrating government’s programmes. We are aware of all the existing money for this programme, but we don’t know why it has stalled,” Mbhamali said. The 60-year-old military veteran left the country for Angola and Zambia in 1978, and returned in 1990. He is unemployed, but managed to build himself a modest house with the money he earned through contract jobs. Last week Parliament’s select committee on social services heard that one of the challenges to providing veterans with houses was finding suitable land. They heard that existing homeowners were concerned about their own properties being devalued. Listen The committee listened to presentations by the provincial health department and human settlements on progress in service delivery programmes. The head of the Department of Human Settlements, Greta Apelgren-Narkedien, and MEC Ravi Pillay said they were still in the process of identifying beneficiaries. Delays in the construction of houses had led to some military veterans invading low-cost housing units such as those in Cornubia, north of Durban, the committee heard. Human Settlements said once a site was identified, people who were waiting for houses wanted to know who those houses were for. The department said they heard that 39 veterans had occupied units in Cornubia, but it had been, in fact, only five. Pillay said the approval process and social issues were just some of the challenges facing the programme. “The veterans themselves want to be involved in the building of these houses. They have their own construction companies, but they still require training in the construction business,” Pillay said. The screening and approval of beneficiaries started in 2015. The programme for the province is funded by a conditional grant of R11 million from the Military Veterans’ Department, while Human Settlements contributed about R100m. The money was transferred to Ithala Bank last year, according to Pillay. For this financial year, the department was looking at building 238 units of the 252 approved beneficiaries, Pillay said. Themba Mavundla, provincial MK Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) chairperson, told the Daily News yesterday that the project’s challenges had been there since its inception. “We wanted to provide for the old veterans and families of those soldiers who had since died, some while in exile. The problem is that some of them were not integrated and had no force numbers,” Mavundla said. He said certain laws in the Department of Military Veterans suppressed the provision of houses to these soldiers. When the programme was mooted, the MKMVA said “Nothing for us, without us”. “The idea was for the soldiers to build their own houses as some were building contractors. Authorities were reluctant to give these companies work, claiming that they lacked capacity. Some of the so-called comrades worked with some of our members to sabotage the programme,” he said. Apla said even though its members were catered for in the programme, the pace at which it was going was not satisfactory. Kenneth Mokgatlhe, PAC national spokesperson, said the main concern was that some members died while on the waiting list for the houses. Daily News