Durban - Men are leading women by four percent when it comes to acquiring debt and being unable to repay it. One of the largest debt counselling companies in South Africa compiled a survey and found that those who signed up to undergo debt review in the second quarter of 2017 were 52% men and 48% women. Neil Roets, CEO of Debt Rescue said there was a year-on-year increase of almost 25% in clients who wanted to go under debt review because they could not pay their accounts. “There has also been an increase in the number of men and women who had fallen on hard times in the second quarter compared to the first quarter of the year,” Roets said. He continued by saying that, “In Q1 the stats from the latest National Credit Bureau Monitor showed that of the 24.68m credit-active consumers 9.69 million had impaired credit records showing that they were behind with their repayments.” In total, consumer debt has peaked at R1.71-trillion (according to the latest National Credit Regulator) and South Africans are now considered to be one of the most indebted nations in the world by the World Bank. “This is the primary reason why a growing army of men and women are choosing the debt review option which gives them breathing space. It allows them to repay their loans in smaller instalments over a longer period of time,” Roets said. Roets said the 31-45 year-old men also remained the largest sector of consumers who had chosen debt review as their best option of getting out from under their debt burden. There remained a list of problems were going to impact on consumers leading to ever high debt-to-income ratios and more bad debts. “The fact that pretty much everybody including some well-respected economists are trumpeting the 2.5% GDP growth rate that has just been announced shows a lack of understanding for where the economy is actually heading. “Agriculture added overwhelming to this figure and that was largely the result of a bumper grain harvest which added 33.6% to the GDP. “The harsh reality is that we would be lucky to sustain a .5% growth rate for the rest of the year which is further going to add to the growing unemployment rate and place increasing pressure on indebted consumers,” Roets said. He said more people were being forced into debt because they simply could not make ends meet. “The best advice I can give to my fellow South Africans is to try and live within their means. Avoid store cards and credit cards wherever possible. Personal loans are always a bad option because most of the short-term lenders cover their risk of granting unsecured loans by charging very high interest rates,” said Roets. “You’ve got to ask yourself the question: if I don’t have the money today where is it going to come from in a few months’ time when I have to repay the loan or settle my credit card debt,” concluded Roets. Daily News