A woman portrayed as one of Ramaphosa’s alleged girlfriends “is our branch member, Cde Nonhlanhla Radebe, who approached the branch to seek advice on how to deal with this malicious, highly damaging allegation against her and the deputy president”, the ANC said. “Radebe wishes to state that she has never had any relationship with the deputy president, and has not even met him in her life. She sees these kind of publications (sic) as a desperate campaign against the deputy president’s popularity in taking over from President (Jacob) Zuma as the president of the ANC.” Radebe was consulting legal advisers about possible legal action she could take against those behind publicising her picture,taken from her Facebook profile. She had received funding to study for her Masters degree in water engineering through the support of the branch. “She has never received any funding from Ramaphosa, or his organisation, nor has she ever met him. “She is based in Germany, at the Technische Universitat Berlin, and is in the country to conduct research for her thesis which she is doing in collaboration with the City of Tshwane on optimising anaerobic digesters.” She has a scholarship from the Catholic Church. “(The) Sefako Makgatho branch maintains its standing to restore the core values of the ANC and reposition the ANC as a leader of society with high moral standing. “Although the branch is concerned about allegations against the deputy president, the branch will not be deterred by such malicious intent to dent the image, not just that of Ramaphosa and Radebe, but of the ANC, as the same journalist has been consistent in reporting negatively against Zuma. “So we are not surprised that he continues with his compromised principles of allowing himself to be used in political campaigns,which journalists should avoid, and report balanced stories,” the ANC said. The branch welcomed Ramaphosa’s statement clarifying his position regarding the allegations against him. The branch maintained its view that Ramaphosa should taker over as ANC president at the party’s December elective conference, working with the collective, including ANC Gauteng provincial chairman Paul Mashatile, to restore the core values of the ANC and reclaim its moral values in South ­African society. ANA