As things stand now, parents who lose a foetus younger than 26 weeks do not have the right to bury or cremate the remains. These remains are regarded as medical waste and disposed of by the government. But the group is challenging legislation with the aim of allowing parents to choose whether they want to bury the remains of foetuses 26 weeks or younger. In their constitutional challenge against the provisions of the Births and Deaths Registration Act, the group said in papers before the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, that grieving parents had the right to decide what to do with the remains of the foetus. The Catholic Archdiocese has indicated it would join the proceedings because it believed that from a Christian point of view, parents should have a say. Lawyers acting for Voice of the Unborn Baby turned to court yesterday in an interlocutory application to try to force the ministers of health and home affairs to file their opposing papers in the matter. Renaldi Ingram said papers were served on the ministers months ago, but they had yet to respond. Counsel acting for the ministers told Judge Harshila Koovertjie that they were awaiting the input of experts they had consulted before the government decided to oppose the application or not. The judge said this was an important and complex case, and that time frames should be put in place to deal with the filing of papers. She removed the matter from the roll and told the parties to approach Deputy Judge President Aubrey Ledwaba for a special court to deal with the matter. Parents The group said in papers it was important for the court to decide on the application, because many expecting parents made a significant emotional investment in their prospective children long before birth. “Pregnancy loss has an undeniable negative emotional impact on such bereaved parents,” said Sonja Smith. She is the owner of Sonja Smith Funeral Group and co-founder of Voice of the Unborn Baby. Smith said the application related to the loss of pregnancy by expecting parents, the emotional consequences of their loss and how the government had to deal with bereaved parents in the constitutional dispensation. The application was not to afford any legal rights to the foetus, but rather focused on the rights of parents. Smith said it was also immaterial whether the pregnancy loss was spontaneous or induced. The act provides for the issuing of a burial certificate only in cases where a human being died after being born alive, or when the unborn child lived longer than 26 weeks in the womb, but died before birth. It does not provide for a certificate when an unborn child dies before 26 weeks in the womb or as a result of termination of pregnancy. The result is that the remains are withheld from the parents and incinerated with other human and medical waste. Cardinal Wilfrid Napier, of the Archdiocese in Durban, said in an affidavit that the parents of these unborn children (a term he preferred over foetus) and, in particular, members of the Catholic Church - were prevented by law from burying their own. “The act not only prevents members of the Catholic faith from living in accordance with their faith, it also subjects them to the trauma of not receiving the remains of their children. “They are further traumatised by knowing that their dead loved one has been incinerated with an indiscriminate mass of human and medical waste.” Napier said the legislation was unconstitutional because it discriminated against church members on the basis of religion. Nicci Kruger, a bereavement counsellor and member of the applicant’s group, said it was heartbreaking and inhumane to tell parents they could not bury these children; the remains had to be disposed of. Daily News