The incident on Monday, which started when a gang held up a cash-in-transit van in Springfield Park, resulted in six robbers being killed and another two injured. The suspects arrested after the botched heist appeared in the Durban Magistrate’s Court on Thursday. Sphelele Goodman Nene, 28, and Thobelani Mthethwa, 23, each face a charge of cash-in-transit robbery. The men were part of a gang of nine, allegedly dressed as road construction workers, who pounced on cash-carrying guards who had just dropped off money at a shopping centre in Springfield. Police were notified and a shoot-out ensued. The fleeing gang continued shooting at police officers, who returned fire. Five gang members were killed. Two bystanders were shot in the crossfire, while two more suffered minor injuries. A sixth gang member died later in hospital, while one more is still on the run. The matter is being investigated by the Hawks. Hawks spokesperson Captain Simphiwe Mhlongo said Nene and Mthethwa were remanded into custody at Westville Prison, pending their next court appearance. “They are back in court on September 7 for a formal bail application. For now they face a charge of cash-in-transit robbery. Other charges will be added as the case continues,” said Mhlongo. One of the injured bystanders remains in a critical, but stable, condition in hospital. The 29-year-old man suffered life-threatening injuries after being shot in the lower abdomen. His 23-year-old friend was shot in the arm. He is in a stable condition. The dead gang members are expected to be buried this weekend. Recalling the day of the heist, Nabeel Dawjee, a pharmacist at Crossmed Pharmacy in Parlock, said he heard the gunshots and then saw people taking cover at the back of the building. “When I first got there, it was chaotic. I fetched Dr Shabnam Adam from her surgery and we rushed to the scene.” Adam said a patient had called her saying she was lucky to be alive because she had been caught in the crossfire. Two bullets had struck her car windscreen. While Adam was on the phone with the patient, Dawjee arrived to fetch her from the surgery to help him. “Let’s go see who we can help,” Adam had said to her assistant, Kelly Bharuth. Dawjee said when they arrived at the scene, they found employees of nearby businesses trying to help their injured colleagues. “Four injured people were sitting together and some of the men were dead in the car. We had to assess which one was a priority and how best to give each one medical attention. Thankfully, we did not see anyone with life-threatening injuries,” Dawjee said. “We did not know about the cash heist. Our focus was on treating the patients. Police filled us in on the incident later,” Adam said. Dawjee said his staff  - Lavasha Pillay, Justin Naicker and Saiyuri Chetty - helped by calling for ambulances and taking medical supplies from his office to the scene in Carden Crescent. Adam and Dawjee had emergency first- aid kits on hand. “We didn’t expect to see such a bad scene. Reflex kicked in. No matter where you get shot, a gunshot wound is always serious. We could not differentiate between the robbers or bystanders. Some were hurt from bullet fragments, while others had lacerations,” Adam said. Dawjee said it was his first time in such a situation. “We have a commitment as health-care professionals to respond in the absence of other medical services. We certainly did not do it for monetary gain or fame. It is a chosen field and we have a passion to help.” Adams worked at Cape Town’s Groote Schuur Hospital and was a medical officer for the SANDF in KwaZulu-Natal. She started her own practice in Parlock this year. Parlock resident Rakitha Singh said the neighbourhood was still in shock and praised and the medical staff for being good Samaritans. - Additional reporting by Se-Anne Rall Daily News