“We want to talk to comrades as comrades. We want to talk unity in the true sense of the word,” he said. Mabuyakhulu and Bheki Cele, an ANC national executive committee (NEC) member and deputy minister of agriculture, forestry and fisheries, addressed hundreds of Ramaphosa supporters in  Esikhawini, Empangeni, on Monday. Mabuyakhulu said his faction had attempted similar negotiations after the 2015 November conference, which had unseated former premier Senzo Mchunu. He said he had approached Premier Willies Mchunu with a view to healing the divide in the party. “We approached these comrades to say we must all embark on a healing exercise in KwaZulu-Natal, but we were told we were in no position to talk to the leadership and to go back to our branches and that no such would take place.” He said his faction had now asked them to talk to their opponents with the view of attaining meaningful unity in the province. Cele said the issue of corruption and the president’s relationship with the Guptas could no longer be ignored as it was hurting the ANC at the polls. It had led to the ANC losing key metros such as Tshwane, Johannesburg and Nelson Mandela Bay. “We are not ruling Ekurhuleni because we did not win it absolutely,”  said Cele. Deployed He said when he was deployed to campaign for the local government elections in Nelson Mandela Bay he had first-hand experience of how corruption could unseat the ANC from its traditional support base. “I lived in Nelson Mandela Bay, I did door-to-door (campaigning) but we were defeated. After the elections the ANC conducted research to find out why we lost. People told us they did not vote for us because we are arrogant, corrupt and aloof. “This means the ANC is not ordained to rule until Jesus comes back, and therefore we should be humble and listen to the people,” said Cele. He also detailed how the NEC had on Friday dealt with the Pietermaritzburg High Court ruling that nullified the 2015 conference that elected the PEC. He said a large majority of NEC members were in support of the disbanding of the PEC. Cele said Zuma and his supporters reacted to the call for the disbanding of the PEC by calling for the appointment of a senior legal counsel to advise the NEC on whether appealing against the judgment would be winnable or not. “The decision on whether we should appeal against the judgment or not will be taken when the NEC meets again next weekend,” he said. Cele said to go to the national conference with a PEC that is embroiled in an appeal would endanger the outcome of the conference. “The danger is that, like the provincial conference, the national conference would be open to a legal challenge,” he said. Cele said he had been threatened with having his blue light convoy and bodyguards taken away from him because of his criticism of Zuma. He said he had been treated with hostility because of his criticism of Zuma, but he would never cower and that he would never leave the ANC. “There is no one who has the right to fire people from the ANC. This is not a spaza shop. We don’t know the ANC that fires people, but we only know of the ANC that recruits people,” he said. Daily News