Durban - An uMlazi mother wants justice after a schoolboy allegedly punched and stabbed her daughter on the school premises. It has been more than a week since Nokwanda Gumede, 18, was allegedly stabbed with a pair of scissors at Zwelihle Secondary School in uMlazi. She has been too afraid to return to school since the attack. Her mother, Thokozani Gumede, has pleaded with the local police and the Department of Education to intervene in removing the transgressor who is still at the school. Gumede said her Grade11 daughter was in a classroom completing a project when a boy wanted to borrow the scissors. “She was using the scissors to cut papers. He tried to take it by force. They had a quarrel. He became very angry. He slapped her and she slapped him back,” Gumede said. It is alleged the boy punched, kicked and pushed Nokwanda to the ground. Gumede said a friend took her daughter to the toilet to clean up the blood on her face and clothes. The boy apparently followed her into the toilet and stabbed her on her head with the scissors. She was treated in hospital and received five stitches. “The teacher was not in the classroom when it happened. My daughter fears for her life and is afraid of going to school. Meanwhile, he (the schoolboy) is continuing with his life. I don’t know what to do. “A teacher advised me to meet the accused’s parents and try to make peace. I want the school to have a safe environment for my child to write her exams.Why are they protecting him?” Gumede asked. Colonel Thembeka Mbhele, police spokesperson, could not confirm why no arrests had been made. A case of assault grievous bodily harm was opened at Bhekithemba SAPS. Kwazi Mthethwa, KwaZulu-Natal Department of Education spokesperson, said the matter was being investigated. Last month, cellphone-recorded footage of a schoolgirl being assaulted by a boy at Siyathuthuka Secondary School in Inanda went viral. Nineteen-year-old Lindokuhle Dube was granted R1500 bail in the Ntuzuma Magistrate’s Court. In the video, he is seen slapping and kicking an 18-year-old girl. Both pupils were wearing full school uniforms. Dube’s matter was adjourned to September 14. Daily News