Sbusiso Dladla, of Welbedacht East informal settlement, was arrested on November 4 last year. He was charged with two counts of assault, with intent to cause grievous bodily harm, and rape. In her impact statement read in court, the victim said she was assaulted by Dladla on a number of occasions - once with a brick - and was taken to hospital. He also raped her on several occasions and deprived her of her dignity as a woman. The offences, she said, had changed her from being a happy woman to a fearful one. “I fear being alone and I constantly cry. I always want to surround myself with the people I feel safe around. Sometimes, it’s like this incident is playing in my mind and causing me so much pain. Dislike She said the case had made Dladla’s friends and people in the community dislike her. “His friends have turned on me and they look at me in a bad manner, as if I have done something wrong by getting him arrested. “They say negative things about me when I encounter them. I feel embarrassed, but I did what I did to save my life.” She said the abuse had delayed her progress in life because of her low self-esteem, she had lost her job and now suffered from constant headaches and dizziness. “I was traumatised from 
what he did to me. I often thought I was better off not to be alive. I could not sleep well at night. I trusted him and all that trust now is gone and has been replaced with fear,” she said. Handing down sentence, Magistrate Pearle Andrews said a life imprisonment term was the only kind of sentence that would send out a strong message that abusing women was absolutely unacceptable. Andrews said she could not find anything in the evidence before court to deviate from the minimum prescribed sentence of life imprisonment. “Rape and assault are very serious crimes that women are subjected to at the hands of men they loved and trusted. The court has a duty to impose a sentence that would serve as a warning to would-be offenders,” she said. Minimum Prosecutor Shayna Naidoo had asked the court to impose the minimum sentence of life imprisonment as prescribed. “Violence against women has reached astronomical proportions. “An aggravating factor is that the majority of these offences are committed by persons whom they trust, and very often it is their partners, lovers and even husbands,” said Naidoo. Daily News