Durban - The eThekwini Municipality has not heard the last of the Berea battle over what local residents have dubbed a “monstrosity” apartment block.
Now, the Save The Berea civic organisation is going to call for a Commission of Inquiry to probe why the city rezoned 317 Currie Road - the controversial high-rise development under construction in question - from residential (GR1 zoning) to GR5 (commercial, high-density, high-rise building). “Something is not right here,” said Cheryl Johnson of the organisation, which is also backing the call by the Advocates For Transformation in KwaZulu-Natal for a commission of inquiry into “illegal buildings,” town planning practices and by-law flouting in the city. Johnson was reacting to the decision by the Constitutional Court which last week refused neighbours, including advocate Tayob Aboobaker, leave to appeal against an earlier ruling by the Supreme Court of Appeal, that the building can stay. The appeal court had overturned a decision by Durban High Court judge Esther Steyn, who ruled that neighbours had not been properly legally notified of the re-zoning of the property. She had ruled that the building should be partially demolished to conform to the site’s original building plan. The eThekwini Municipality had conceded that not all neighbours had been notified of the re-zoning in terms of the legislation. Neighbours complained that the nine-storey luxury apartment block going up impeded on their privacy, blocked sunlight and views and had an impact on their property values. “Mr Aboobaker lost his view, the sun - and he looks on to a concrete wall,” Johnson said. The developers, Serengeti Rise Industries, who were forced to stop construction during the lengthy legal battle, had appealed against Judge Steyn’s ruling that their building be partly demolished. Now the latest decision by the Constitutional Court means that the Supreme Court’s earlier ruling stands, and there is no change: the building will not have to be demolished. Thousands of Durban residents have expressed their disappointment at the Cons titutional Court’s ruling that there be no appeal by the neighbours. “I posted a story about the decision on Facebook and there were 1 000 comments by lunchtime, and I am expecting about 7 000,” Johnson said. “People all over Durban are upset and disappointed by this decision,” she said. A meeting will be called for residents about the issue. Neither Aboobaker nor Serengeti Rise Industries could be reached for a comment on Wednesday. Daily News