Durban - It was a moment of mixed emotions for Lipou Khotseng when his ex-girlfriend and mother of two of his children was convicted on Thursday for killing his wife and 2-week-old son.Nolwazi Mbambo, 30, was described by acting Durban High Court Judge Sharon Marks as a "jealous" woman who had directed her anger at the wrong person. Mbambo, who was unhappy over maintenance payments for her children, was found guilty of attacking Nokuthula Patience Khotseng and her baby, Neo, at their home in Efolweni in April last year. Their bodies were found by neighbours. People in the community who had seen Mbambo leaving the house, had caught her. She had pleaded not guilty to the double murder and showed no emotion when judgment was handed down. Members of the community and Nokuthula’s friends and family were jubilant at the outcome. Khotseng, who has three children with Nokuthula, was emotional as he spoke to the Daily News outside court. “I feel numb. A part of me is glad that at last justice has been served and I hope that my wife and son will now rest in peace after the conviction of their killer. “Another part of me is hurting for the innocent children who will now be without mothers,” he said. Khotseng said he recently found it in his heart to forgive Mbambo after attending counselling sessions. “I only forgave her so that I can lift the burden of having to live the rest of my life with hate and anger,” he said. Senior state advocate Kelvin Singh had called witnesses who testified against Mbambo’s version that she was never at the Khotsengs' home on the day of the incident. Marks said the State had proved beyond reasonable doubt that Mbambo had planned to attack Nokuthula with the intention of killing her. Marks said she could not accept Mbambo’s version that witnesses had seen another woman with the same clothing as hers, who had murdered the mother and child. “I accept the version that you entered Khotseng’s home armed with a stick and attacked the woman with her infant baby boy who was in his mother’s arms. You landed fatal blows to the head. They both died as a result of head injuries before you fled the scene and, unfortunately for you, the members of the public apprehended you,” said Marks. Daily News