“As soon as I heard the gunshots outside, I knew it was my son being killed. They have taken my son while he was still so young. They have killed me,” said 60-year-old Thandazile Mkhize on Thursday. Kwazikwakhe Mkhize, 36, shot in the back of his head outside the Nkanyezini Community Hall, was within walking distance from his home and the same venue where, one year earlier, he was voted the Ward 3 councillor. He had been one of four candidates nominated by the community for the position and his family said he had never before been attacked. Mkhize was planning to marry and had just paid the lobolo. He had previously worked as a lecturer at Boston College in Pietermaritzburg before becoming a ward councillor in the Nkanyezini area. Mkhize has one surviving child. His family said the killer had been seen fleeing on foot after the murder. Sipho Mkhize, an uncle of the slain councillor, said Mkhize had left home for the ANC branch meeting which started at about 7pm and he was killed about 30 minutes later. He said Mkhize had never made mention of any threats against his life or that he was finding it difficult to conduct his work as a councillor. “In all that he did we knew him as someone who worked with the whole community with freedom,” Sipho said. Ntokozo Ndlovu, an ANC ward committee member in Ward 3 and also his brother-in-law, worked extensively with Mkhize and said Mkhize thoroughly loved his job and was transparent in all his dealings. “These incidents happen, but they happen in other places. We didn’t expect it to happen here,” Ndlovu said. Such was Mkhize’s dedication to ensuring his community thrived, said Ndlovu, he did not have a car and would walk to meetings and during door-to-door campaigns. Sipho said there had been no conflicting views in the ward that could have led to his nephew’s death and they had never expected such a tragedy to befall them. He said: “We have decided to let the police do their work. What we know is that he was killed while doing his job, sent by the organisation he worked for. We can’t say anything else besides that. “What would make us happy, is for those responsible to be found and arrested, and the keys must be thrown away because they took away our breadwinner,” Sipho said. Ndlovu said Mkhize had helped his community extensively and had already ensured that work had begun on a new tarred road, and was in the process of seeing that the ward got a new health clinic. Sgcino Bhengu, another uncle of Mkhize’s, said his nephew had been instrumental in getting jobs for members of his community in the neighbouring Camperdown area. “Kwazi was fast in doing his job, he wasn’t even in a rush to buy a car because he was dedicated to working with his community. You can’t tell me about people who rush to buy cars so they can show off while their communities suffer,” Bhengu said. Police said the KwaZulu-Natal Political Task Team was investigating the murder. “It is alleged that Kwazikwakhe Mkhize was fatally shot by an unknown suspect. The motive for the killing is unknown and no arrest has been made at this stage.” Daily News