Saturday’s winds ripped off the roof at Collingwood Primary School, damaging at least six classrooms. The Department of Education has committed itself to working around the clock to ensure that lessons resume at the school. Loretta Hughes, Collingwood’s school governing body chairperson, said she received a message on Saturday afternoon that the school had been damaged during the storm. “When I arrived, Colin Chand, the principal, was already here. We found there was extensive damage to about six of the classrooms. Because it was still quite windy, we did not stay long. There was a lot of debris flying around.” She said four of the classrooms were part of the junior phase (Grades 1-3) block on the second floor. The classrooms beneath were also damaged because the water seeped through from above, Hughes said. Two classrooms in the senior phase (Grades 4-7) block were damaged. One of the classrooms was the school’s computer lab. Hughes said a decision was made on Sunday that the school would be closed on Monday. “It was not safe for  pupils or teachers to be on the premises. We then took a decision on Monday that the school will remain closed until further notice.” Hughes promised that parents would be kept informed. This is the second such incident at the school. Paula Jackson, whose daughter is in Grade 6, said a similar incident took place in 2013. “School was closed from November 2013 until January 2014 for repairs.”  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Desmond D’Sa, a community activist and Wentworth Development chairperson, said it was time to hold the Department of Education and eThekwini mayor Zandile Gumede accountable. “What happened here was total devastation. I was here in 2013 when the winds blew off part of the roof. The government cannot just send people back here to simply patch up the roof. These prefabricated schools have served their time. “At least 50% of the pupils at this school come from townships, and we need to hold the department and the city accountable,” D’Sa said. According to Hughes, officials from the Public Works, Education and Health departments have conducted site visits at the school. Education spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa said they would await the results of the site visits and then take the necessary steps. “We will work around the clock to make sure that learning resumes,” he said. At South Coast Madressa School in Clairwood, Grade R 
pupils arrived at school on Monday to find the roof had been blown off their classroom. Pupils are being accommodated in the school’s multipurpose room until the roof has 
been repaired. Daily News