A number of ANC councillors have been killed in what are believed to be politically motivated killings. uPhongolo councillor Nqaba Mkhwanazi told the commission, sitting at the Department of Public Works, Mayville, how his friend Mbhekiseni Khumalo had been killed in his home last year. Khumalo had been about to serve a second term as the Ward 7 councillor in the Hector Pieterson branch when he was killed. Mkhwanazi said irregularities in the selection of candidates for leadership positions had contributed to the death of his friend. He said Khumalo’s selection had been challenged. “The regional and provincial leadership of the ANC 
were the underlying cause for the killings of political opponents. “Before Khumalo’s death we had a meeting where another faction, which was against Khumalo, made threats that there would be 
a by-election in the ward. “The only way that this could happen is by killing a sitting councillor before the end of his term, or the councillor resigning.” He said there had been a municipal roadshow where certain people requested an opportunity to address municipal and political leadership. “These people made accusations that Khumalo was not 
servicing them because they were from another ward. I requested these people to come outside so that I could address them. “They came and they assured me that they would 
stop making noise when Khumalo was no longer a councillor. “They said they would stop when he was dead,” Mkhwanazi said. Advocate Bheki Manyathi, evidence leader, asked Mkhwanazi if the threat about a by-election had anything to do with Khumalo’s death, to which he responded that the death and the by-election were not a coincidence. “We are of the view that Khumalo was killed because of his selection by the region as a councillor. “He was not a favourite candidate of the people yet the region approved him as councillor. “They imposed him on the people and even when the people displayed dissatisfaction, nothing was done and he was killed. “In numerous cases the leadership would back a name which they feel they could manipulate, but Khumalo was not remote-controlled. He was against corruption despite the fact that his name was seconded for a second term against the people’s wishes,” he said. “When Khumalo made it to the list for a second term, community members were not happy with his appointment as councillor for the second term. There were two factions - one in support and another against him. “People called for a by-election to remove him but that would turn out nasty later.” He said another danger to the municipality and the community was that volunteers were used by the ANC for campaigning. Professor Cheryl Potgieter, one of the commissioners, asked Mkhwanazi if he meant that the volunteers, who are mostly uneducated, could be easily manipulated into committing illegal activities for the warring factions. “You said when these 
people are done with the campaigns, could they possibly get involved in criminal activities, including being hitmen?” asked Potgieter. Mkhwanazi could not link the campaigners to hitmen, but said they could be easily used. “Politically the camps can take advantage of these people. Another thing that happened in the Abaqulusi region after Khumalo was killed was that a stamp used to make fake membership cards was discovered. “We uncovered more than 4000 ghost members. “These members can easily attend conferences and this could result in unfair practices when it came to voting,” he said. He said the stamp and the list of the ghost members had been reported to the ANC provincial leadership and Gwede Mantashe, the party secretary-general. Mkhwanazi said the ghost membership scam was done to manipulate numbers during branch audits. “A certain group of people claiming to be youth leaders 
are behind this scandal. We are yet to hear from the leadership on this matter but all was reported. Corruption, factionalism and tenderpreneurship resulted in the unnecessary killing of innocent people,” said Mkhwanazi. He blamed the national leadership for allowing the crisis to escalate. Mantashe said he had no recollection of a list of ghost members. “It sounds like you are talking about a disgruntled member here. If he’s a councillor he should know the proper channels of addressing issues. In any case, if this was a testimony at the commission, then the commission will contact us to verify those claims. “On the political killings, what action did this person expect the leadership to take? We don’t know who’s behind the killings because these are happening in KZN,” Mantashe said. Daily News