“I’ve never sat in a meeting and asked anybody to help Duduzane,” Zuma said, after MPs demanded to know, in particular, whether his son, who has close business ties with the controversial Gupta family, 
had been favoured for state business. Zuma then failed to answer a question from DA leader Mmusi Maimane on whether he would sue Brent Simmons, the chief director of Public Service and Administration. Simmons submitted an affidavit to Speaker Baleka Mbete in which he accused the president of lying to Parliament when he claimed he had not introduced family members to government officials as business contacts. The Sunday press reported that Simmons apparently cited several incidents where he claimed to have seen Zuma “directing” members of his family to Collins Chabane, the late public service and administration minister. Ignored Zuma ignored the question, then insisted he had answered it after DA MPs chanted “answer the question”. John Steenhuisen, DA chief whip, said he had not, but had frustrated the process and asked Mbete to compel Zuma to answer the question. She replied that she was not entitled to prescribe to the executive on how to answer a question, prompting Steenhuisen to say the proceedings were a sham if she would not ensure the president answered questions. Economic Freedom Fighters leader Julius Malema was interrupted by objections from the ANC benches when he addressed Zuma as “Baba kaDuduzane”, or the “father of Duduzane”. The younger Zuma’s notoriety rose further this week when he penned an open letter, accusing former finance minister Pravin Gordhan of abusing state machinery to target his business interests and those of his associates, the Guptas. Protect Malema, too, asked why Zuma had failed to sue those who had made serious allegations against him, and whether this meant their claims were true. “Why don’t you take action to protect the good image of the office, even if you don’t care personally,” Malema asked. Zuma said many people said negative things about him every day. “I don’t take actions against people like yourself. Generally, I don’t,” Zuma said, and chuckled after Mbete switched off Malema’s microphone, leaving him gesticulating. The opposition had raised points of order protesting against Zuma’s presence in the House and his continued presidency for half an hour before he could speak. An EFF MP charged that the chamber should not be addressed by “a rapist”, but was forced to withdraw the remark. Zuma replied to the question on mounting allegations of state money illicitly flowing to the Gupta family, that it closely matched the issues raised by former public protector Thuli Madonsela in her “State of ­Capture” report. He had undertaken to appoint a commission of inquiry to investigate the allegations and planned to do so, he added. “I’ve been working with the legal people on it and it will be announced in due course.” The president is, however, challenging Madonsela’s directive that the head of the commission be appointed not by him, but by the Chief Justice. Maimane then asked Zuma whether he planned to dismiss the board of struggling national airline SAA, in particular chairwoman Dudu Myeni, who he stressed was a close associate of Zuma. Zuma said the company’s problems preceded the current leadership as it had never “been on top of the world”. The government was planning to recapitalise it to resolve its financial woes, he said. African News Agency