The recent three-day warehouse fire in Clairwood triggered safety questions from concerned residents. They want to know how safe they would be in the event of a “deadly explosion” from one of the refineries. The South Durban Community Environmental Alliance (SDCEA), and the Clairwood Residents and Ratepayers Association (CRRA) yesterday told the Daily News that the community’s close proximity to the chemical facilities required “at least” community drills, sirens and a clear indication of which assembly points to go to when disaster struck. In response, the eThekwini Municipality sent the Daily News a June 2016 revision of their municipal disaster management plan, which the city initially adopted eight years ago. According to this document, should there be a disaster that impacts on the area, “it is imperative that appropriate plans are in place to initiate and manage an off-site response to ensure that suitable public protective actions are implemented and to restore normality as swiftly as possible”. The document also refers to levels of command, control and co-ordination should the severity of the incident escalate or threaten to do so. The on-scene incident commander is to then consider declaring the incident be co-ordinated at a higher level and to apprise the emergency mobilising and communications centre accordingly. “In the case of certain industrial facilities and/or national key points, this level of command is automatic and is contained in the emergency plans of these institutions. These include King Shaka International, Engen, Sapref, Durban Port Authority, Island View Cutler Complex and Heartlands Leasing in Umbogintwini,” the document read. Desmond D’Sa, SDCEA co-ordinator, said the community did not know about this plan despite many requests for one. “You can’t have a plan and keep it in the cupboard. It should be made available to the people. If one or more of the refineries were to explode, would the municipality only then start showing people the evacuation plan? How would it help then? What if the incident involves a toxic chemical or potentially heavier-than-air flammable gas release? People do not know what to do should this happen,” D’Sa said. He said early warning sirens should be installed throughout the area of “likely impact”, both in the valley and on the ridge line, and that this was the same system industries in the area used to warn its employees of danger. “Elsewhere in the world, sirens are your primary warning system for communities. Even Koeberg uses them,” he said. For D’Sa, another innovative way to avert casualties would be to have a “dedicated” radio station broadcasting into a narrow footprint, to receive a very localised commentary. Overseas, a bulk SMS system linked to existing ratepayer or utility user databases is used to communicate within an affected block or zone, and is used to send the initial emergency warning with an instruction that could be to turn your radio to a certain frequency or alert your deaf neighbour, etc. D’Sa said this was easy to do, and the industry and the municipality could do it too. “It’s also an international finding that rehearsing viable emergency plans and drills with the community massively decreases or even diminishes the likelihood of casualties,” he said. CRRA spokesperson Ravin Brijlalsaid they had been worried “way before” the warehouse fire incident. “During the recent fire, we sent out a message to our WhatsApp chat group, alerting our members to evacuate if wind diverted smoke to their homes. Evacuate where to? We don’t know. “This is not an exaggeration; it’s scary because we are surrounded by all these underground pipes, warehouses and refineries. We are worried,” Brijlal said. Sharon Hoosen, DA member in eThekwini’s safety and emergency services committee, said she was not aware of the risk assessment and emergency response plan for the area. “If you have an industrial area that could emit dangerous fumes, residents should be aware of what to do in an emergency. We are lucky that there were 
no casualties in the recent fire,” she said. Daily News