DURBAN - The Active Citizens Movement, organisers of the Ahmed Kathrada Memorial Service on Sunday, are considering filing a contempt of court application against the ANC Youth League (ANCYL). This comes after the league defied a high court order preventing them from harassing or intimidating anyone who attended or spoke at the memorial service. Yashica Padia from the Active Citizens Movement said this morning they were consulting their legal team on whether or not to approach the court. The movement had tried to interdict the youth league from attending the memorial, but a Durban High Court judge said he could not prevent the league’s members from attending a public event but had cautioned them to behave. However, the court had ordered that ANCYL not disrupt the service, intimidate anyone or remove any of the speakers. But on Sunday the youth league drowned out the keynote address by former finance minister Pravin Gordhan and the ANC’s treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize. Several people who attended were angered by the league’s actions. After the service, Sihle Zikalala, Economic Development and Tourism MEC and the ANC provincial chairman, condemned rowdy sections of the crowd. “We don’t support howling, we don’t support heckling leaders. We want leaders to be respected. It is important that we deal with these issues. We will be speaking to the youth league and other structures to identify those people and try to engage with them,” he said. Disappointing Mohamed Cassim, who attended, said these disruptions were “disappointing”. “We didn’t hear what we came to hear: a tribute to a man in the ANC and a Struggle stalwart. Pravin Gordhan is a member of the ANC and he got treated like an outsider by his organisation. I am pro-ANC, but after seeing this I can understand why people leave for other parties. We were absolutely shocked. These guys literally took over and hijacked the meeting,” he said. While disappointed with the league’s actions, Professor Yousuf Vawda, an Active Citizens Movement member, felt  Kathrada would have been happy with the service as he believed in a “robust democracy”. “In our view it was mostly successful even though the ANC Youth League tried to disrupt it. We expected things to get heated, but not to degenerate,” he said. Zarina Maharaj, a mourner, said the disruptions were “appalling”. “The ANC and the ANC Youth League should be called to order. They turned this memorial into a political platform when they were advocating that it should not be done. We are going to be the next Zimbabwe. That’s the direction they are taking,” she said. “Many people came here to listen to Pravin Gordhan. We are interested in what he has to say, but he had to cut short his speech.” Over 1000 people packed the Sastri College hall on Sunday. Gordhan was booed and heckled during his speech. “Ahmed Kathrada would say to us that despite differences that we might have among us, we agreed on the type of South Africa we want. “We agreed that we needed a different kind of economy. We agreed that all of our people must have a much better life than we had,” he said. At this point he paused and Zikalala intervened, asking the rowdy crowd to settle down. Gordhan continued, saying Kathrada would have wanted South Africans to be hopeful for the future of South Africa. He added that if the ANC did not unite, the party would do dismally in the 2019 national elections. “We can carry on squabbling among us and we will lose confidence of the people from all walks of life. We want to remain in government so we can change South Africa.” Gordhan said unity could not be bought with money in brown paper bags. This statement incensed the ANC supporters who jeered him. He said Kathrada would have wanted South Africans to work for each other, to change the economy, politics and stop corruption, which he said was killing the economy. Mkhize made an impromptu appearance and was also heckled as he tried to address the rowdy crowd. Mkhize  said the memorial was a proper tribute to Kathrada. Zikalala said events like this should not be used to push a personal agenda. “We accept criticism with humility and we use it to do self-introspection. “Having said that, I must say that to use the platform 
of a memorial service or 
any platform of bereavement 
to postulate and echo any sense of disagreement is not correct.” Thanduxolo Sabelo, the ANCYL’s provincial secretary, felt the service went “very well”. “The messages were sent. Yes, there were incidents which, as the ANC Youth League, we condemn. “We also believed our members were provoked through other speeches that were made,” he said. Sabelo said action would be taken against those found
responsible for the disruptions. He said the heckling was not aimed at Mkhize, but took place because tensions were already high when Mkhize spoke. Sabelo denied they had attended with the intention of disrupting the service. “We are not here to disrupt; we are here to pay homage to a hero of the ANC. “That is the only reason we are here and not to disrupt proceedings.” Daily News  