“We need to go to the African markets and the rest of the world to market South Africa under Team SA,” said Prasheen Maharaj yesterday at the end of the two-day annual Maritime Summit organised by the eThekwini Maritime Cluster. “If we want to make Durban and South Africa great again, we have to hunt in packs,” said Maharaj, chairman of the cluster’s marine manufacturing sub-committee and the chief executive of Southern African Shipyards in Durban. Thato Tsautse, managing director of the eThekwini Maritime Cluster, said Team SA, comprising ship building and ship-repair industry representatives, would set out on their international marketing drive this year. Delegates heard earlier that the industry was in decline compared with the 1980s when the Bayhead, the centre of the local ship-building and ship-repair industry, employed about 9000 people. However, the Bayhead could be given a boost if another plan to get it declared a special economic zone (like the Dube TradePort) under the Department of Trade and Industry is successful. This would mean incentives, including tax rebates, for new and upgraded industries located there. Transnet would still own the land, but there would be a more enabling environment at Bayhead, delegates heard. Transnet was a logistics company and should not be solely responsible for infrastructure, Maharaj felt. The session also called for the speedy development of a boat-building park. “And if we want to be a great industry, we need more ship-repair berths,” Maharaj added. “The demand is there. We just need to get our house in order and create an enabling environment,” Maharaj said. Another report will be carried out on the manufacture and supply of components, which would prevent manufacturers having to import them. This would grow the ship-building industry. The “elephant in the room”, said Maharaj, was the “exorbitant rents” that Transnet charged. It was decided at the summit that an international benchmarking exercise should be conducted to compare local rents to those charged internationally. Mike Hawes, a maritime logistics consultant and the industry representative on the Operation Phakisa project, the Presidential initiative which aims to exploit the ocean economy, said some of the objectives of Operation Phakisa (meaning “hurry up”) were not being hurried at all. Some time scales set for marine manufacture and the unlocking of investment would not be achieved in the intended five years. It would more likely take seven years. “We are waiting for some of the simple things, like the supply of cranes.” He said 22 cranes, including eight in Durban, should have been delivered by now.