Six years later, a Durban magistrate found that the arresting officer had acted maliciously by arresting the Chatsworth youngster three months after a 5-year-old girl claimed he had raped her and despite a lack of medical evidence. Durban Regional Court magistrate S Moolman said after listening to evidence from the investigating officer, the now 20-year-old had a legitimate claim for damages against the police. The officer had called the youngster and his mother to the Chatsworth police station in July 2011 for an interview. She had apparently provided no further information. The boy went to the police station in his school uniform, thinking he would just be a few minutes and then go to school, but the officer arrested him on a charge of rape. Three months earlier, a 5-year-old girl and her mother, who lived next door to the youngster and his family, complained to the officer about the alleged rape. The female investigating officer interviewed the girl and her mother, and the girl was also examined by a district surgeon who found there was no medical evidence that she had been sexually assaulted. The officer, aware that the neighbours had an acrimonious history, arrested the boy and detained him with “adult serious and violent criminals” at the Chatsworth police cells. The boy was not allowed contact with his parents and was not supervised by the police during his time in the cell. Dropped He was kept in this cell for eight hours where he was threatened by the men. He was subsequently released and the charges were later dropped. His parents sued the minister of police for R500000 in damages, and when their son became an adult he took over the claim as the main plaintiff. According to court papers, the youngster had experienced “stark fear” while in the police cells and being denied contact with his parents. When he was released he had suffered shame among his peers, had become withdrawn and suffered from frequent nightmares. At the start of the civil trial last month, the investigating officer testified and while under cross-examination by the youngster’s lawyer, advocate Ryan Naidu, the officer admitted she had acted maliciously and with intent to mislead the boy’s mother when she had called them to the police station for an interview. She had also admitted that the only evidence she had before her was the complaint from the girl and her mother who had only come to the police three months after the alleged incident. Further, she went ahead with the arrest despite the district surgeon’s finding that cleared the boy of any wrongdoing. Naidu had closed his case after the investigating officer’s evidence, saying there was no need for the youngster to testify after the officer’s evidence. The magistrate agreed. Moolman found that it was quite clear there was no basis to arrest the youngster and found the police liable for damages. The matter was adjourned until next month to determine the amount in damages that should be awarded to the youngster. Speaking after the decision, the youngster’s mother said her family was still distraught about the ordeal and the allegation made against their son. “Waiting for so long for a court decision was even more traumatic,” she said. “We’re happy with the court’s finding and also with the great work by our legal team.” Daily News