Everett, a former school teacher, was choosing his words as carefully as they were diplomatic. He was almost certainly referring to the role of the TMO, which saw Johan Greeff disallow a Sharks try because of a dangerous tackle in the build-up and then rule that lock Etienne Oosthuizen had twice tackled recklessly and deserved the bin. The calls were marginal but had a significant impact. “We were confident going into the game, had done our homework and then executed our game plan well only for telling moments at vital times that cost us dearly,” Everett said.  “We feel we did enough to win the game.” The game was played at Cup final intensity and with the Sharks having given their all, can they get up mentally for this week’s home match against the Jaguares? They were completely flat against the Kings in Durban after the week before having played a blinder to thrash the Waratahs. “That will not be a problem,” Everett said. “We see the season as a process and we are generally improving, and the guys want to see reward for their effort with a win. For instance, there has been a huge improvement on our attack from last year. “The guys will definitely be up for the Jaguares,” the coach continued. “For one thing there is the carrot of having a bye next week and the guys will enjoy it a heck of a lot more after a win.” And if you look at the log, this is an extremely vital game for the Sharks, who are tie on 18 points with the Jaguares, but in third place on points difference. “This game is vital for us,” Everett said. “The Jaguares have a game in hand, so we need a complete performance that will get us five points so we can stay in the hunt (for the play-offs).  We want to go into the bye in second place.” The Sharks got away lightly on the injury front against the Lions and after the bye will have key players back from injury in Keegan Daniel and Philip van der Walt. “There will be some tough selection decisions to make but that is what you want. It means you are growing a squad, and that is very important for a competition as demanding as this one.” Everett said the Sharks were anticipating a similar type of game to last week’s epic in Johannesburg. “What will help us this week with our preparation is that the Argentinians play a similar game to the Lions. They run from all parts of the field, they like to keep ball in hand and have great athletes,” he said. “Perhaps, the only difference is that the Jaguares have a more physical aspect to their game than the Lions. They are certainly a team we respect enormously.” Bosch is the talk of the town What do you get when you marry prodigious talent with a rare work ethic? A player of the ability of Curwin Bosch, perhaps, the most talked about player in South African rugby. Bosch’s backline coach, Everett says the 19-year-old’s focus and fastidious commitment to improving his game reminds him of Pat Lambie when the latter joined the Sharks at the same age. “Curwin gets better week in week out. He is a quick learner and has shown tremendous maturity. I thought that his performance against the Lions was spectacular. He showed maturity in decision-making and there is no need to comment on his kicking. “But displays like that are not by accident or just down to innate talent. Curwin works really hard at his game. Every day he is out on the training pitch kicking for ages. The goal-kicking is what the public identifies with but there is so much more to him as an individual. “He is intelligent and diligent and works really hard. He spends hours each week doing his own video analysis and is part of our strategy group. He is just 19 and is already adding so much value to the squad. He has the head of a 30-year-old and reminds me so much of Pat as a youngster. “Curwin has pace and a good step, and he is going to gain experience the more he plays. Whether he plays 10 or 15 will depend on the needs of the team. He is equally happy in both positions.”