However, her spokesperson, Mthunzi Gumede, said that this statement, made yesterday at a media briefing, was taken out of context. “All those who are marching in support of or against President Jacob Zuma, must follow procedures. There should be no anarchy in the city,” he said. This comes after the uMkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) ridiculed the march, which religious leaders and civil society organisations called South Africans to support, saying they would defend the ANC and Zuma by any means. The planned protests across the country follow Zuma’s latest cabinet reshuffle, which included the firing of Pravin Gordhan as finance minister and his deputy, Mcebisi Jonas. This had prompted Standard & Poor’s to downgrade South Africa to junk status. Themba Masango, national convener of the Save South Africa campaign, said the core message of the People’s March was “Zuma must go, and must go immediately”. He urged South Africans to come out in their numbers to join the march, irrespective of their political affiliations. “If you are a South African and you are tired of the status quo, just come out and join the march. We are tired and we can’t keep working this way. Let’s get our democracy working,” he said. Social justice activist Mark Heywood said the march would be peaceful and legal. Religious leaders supporting the march include Reverend Ray McCauley, Hindu priest Ashwin Trikamjee and Chief Rabbi Warren Goldstein of the National Religious Leaders’ Council (NRLC), together with church leaders Archbishop Thabo Makgoba, of the Anglican Church, Bishop Zipho Siwa, of the South African Council of Churches, and Bishop Mosa Sono, of the International Federation of Christian Churches. They called on Zuma “to do 
the honourable thing and step down”. “The actions of the president in recalling Gordhan, and his deputy from an international roadshow aimed at wooing investors and engaging with rating agencies has left South Africa embarrassed and humiliated on the international stage,” said Reverend Giet Khosa on behalf of the NRLC and church leaders. “It’s beyond comprehension that the president, who is required by the constitution to put South Africa and its people first, could behave in a manner contrary to his oath of office,” Khosa said. Council of Muslim Theologians (Jamiatul Ulama SA) secretary-general  Moulana Ebrahim Bham said the ANC had to take full responsibility for the current fallout, “and look at ways of easing the mounting tensions in a decisive manner”. However, Themba Mavundla, the MKMVA provincial chairperson, yesterday warned the “forces of darkness” that their organisation’s patience was not unlimited. “Our people are ready to defend our hard-won gains. In particular, these forces of darkness must stay away from Luthuli House. We will defend Luthuli House with our lives and our limbs,” said Mavundla. He explained that the mandate of the president was to lead the ANC and the country to prosperity by ensuring the poor majority were integrated into the mainstream of the economy and that the land was returned to its rightful owners. Mavundla said at least 600 MK soldiers had been deployed to Luthuli House, Johannesburg, for the upcoming march. “In short, we are saying that we are ready to defend the ANC, its democratically elected president and the country, with our lives. In this time, we call on true democrats to be vigilant. “Let us defend our movement against those ganging up against it. To the battle, before it is too late. Life or death, victory is certain,” he said. When asked if he expected the march to get violent, Mavundla said: “We will do what we as soldiers are trained to do.” In Durban, a crowd of supporters is expected to meet at the Durban Circus Site (opposite the old Durban Drive-In) at 9am. The march will proceed along the North Beach promenade and end at the amphitheatre along the beachfront. Despite a number of threats being made on social media against the march, organisers said it would go ahead. The DA has laid charges of crimen injuria against the ANC and the individual speakers who issued threats. Captain Nqobile Gwala, provincial police spokesperson, said security had been increased for Friday’s event. “Operations have been planned with police officers from all the SAPS units to monitor the situation on the day. A large number of police officers will be deployed at the identified hotspots to prevent any criminal activities,” she said. Steve Middleton, metro police deputy head, said metro police would be deployed to monitor the protest and direct traffic. Some businesses in the North Beach area said they would not close on Friday. A popular grocery store in the area said they had contingency plans in place and would not close their doors unless the march turned violent. Henry Naidoo, of North Beach Community Policing Forum, said residents had not been notified of any dangers or hazards. The government announced earlier this week that Friday was a normal working day. Haywood, director of Section27, said they were negotiating with business organisation to not penalise anyone who wanted to join the march. “If people wish to knock off early, they should be allowed to,” he said. Some Durban companies have suggested employees take a day’s leave if they wish to participate in the march. If they do not; the no-work no-pay rule will apply. Daily News