This is according to DrPhilipa Peil, a chief medical officer at Liberty, during a presentation yesterday. Peil said the latest research showed that a number of people in the young achiever bracket, 20 to 35 years, were being treated for colon cancer. “Normally colon cancer is diagnosed in people over the age of 50, but we are noticing claims are coming in from those in the young achiever bracket. This is due to eating processed and fast foods,” said Peil. The presentation further revealed that KwaZulu-Natal had the highest number of claims for murder-related deaths in 2016. KZN also experienced the biggest cause for claims related to cardiac and cardiovascular deaths. “In KwaZulu-Natal, the Indian community has the highest death rate for diabetes. Other factors that contribute to these figures are hypertension and raised cholesterol levels,” Peil explained. She said in 2012, studies showed that the four main cancers were lung, breast, prostate and colon. Peil said it was vital that men booked prostate scans after the age of 45. “This is more important in cases where a brother or father has been diagnosed with prostate cancer. If there are no risk factors, then it’s advisable to go from age 45. Men do not like to go for prostate screening, but they must remember women have to go for pap smears. “Often a doctor cannot make a diagnosis simply based on the PSA (prostate-specific antigen) test and will tell the patient to come back after six months,” she said. Peil advised that if a man’s father or brother was diagnosed with prostate cancer, it was advisable for him to go for check-ups at least 10 years before the age his relative was diagnosed. She further urged women to conduct regular self-examinations. “A woman is never too young to start examining herself. It is better to do it at the same time every month, especially for women who have fibroadenosis (non-cancerous lumps) in their breasts. “Breast tissue changes depending on hormonal changes. Regular examinations will help you to know when something is wrong,” she said. Daily News