On Monday, the Durban High Court ordered the city to make the payment to the company in yet another episode of a long-running legal tussle between the two parties. Tansnat is owned by taxi boss, Mandla Gcaba, nephew of President Jacob Zuma. The city acquired Tansnat’s services in 2009 on a monthly lease of R15000 for each bus. At the time, Tansnat also received a subsidy from the Department of Transport. Sandile Khoza, director of Norton Rose Fulbright, the firm representing Tansnat, said they were happy with the court's ruling. “The payout means Tansnat will be able to run the day-to-day operations of the bus service more effectively,” said Khoza. He said the remaining funds, which are in excess of R132m will form part of a separate process. “The official amount is not cast in stone and we will await the process which will be determined in the future,” he said. A bus driver who has been working for Tansnat for over 20 years, said the ongoing court feud between the city and Tansnat had not had any bearing on drivers’ salaries. “Each month we receive our salaries with no hassle,” the father of five, who asked not to be named, said. He said the blocking off of access routes to the city by these buses on Friday had nothing to do with the 
anti-Zuma marches. The affected roads included Umgeni Road, M4 North and South and the N2 near the 
EB Cloete Interchange. City officials had the buses towed to the bus depot. At the time, Tozi Mthethwa, eThekwini Municipality's spokesperson, said they would identify the drivers who staged the blockade and take the necessary action against them. Yesterday's court order called for the municipality to pay over R7.5m to Tansnat’s creditors as they had agreed to do in January 2016. In 2015, the municipality filed for an order of liquidation against Tansnat, claiming the company was unable to pay its debts. The city claimed Gcaba had given himself a loan for R30.7m, which he had reportedly not paid back. Chief Financial Officer for the municipality, Krish Kumar, said Tansnat owed the municipality R52m, hence the liqui-
dation application. But Tansnat denied the allegations. In court papers, Gcaba said the municipality had “suppressed material facts” and was “seeking through the back door” to wind up his company to take control of the bus op-
eration. It was eventually agreed that an intervention team be established to set up a ring-fenced account between the city and Tansnat. The intervention team had to verify all expenditure prior to capturing and releasing payments. Payments were only to be released once approval had been granted by the city manager and Gcaba. The team also had to ensure that amounts received and/or collected by Tansnat in the operation of business was promptly deposited into the ring-fenced bank account. Daily News