The Aconcagua, which is part of the Andes mountain range, stands at 22841 feet above sea level and is the second-highest mountain outside the Himalayas. It is characterised by glaciers and is snowed down for most of the year. Being in the Argentina National Park, it is protected and only open to the public for climbing and summitting during mid November, December and half of February. The rest of the year it is closed off because of the extreme weather conditions and the danger it poses to climbers. Despite the possible dangers, Bolhuis and his partner Corne Mare dared to face the mountain climb to further raise the flag in calling for an end of abuse and crimes against women and children. Bolhuis said the feat was not easy as they were fairly big guys and this made climbing even more difficult as they faced wind speeds of between 50 and 100km/* . “Summiting could take up to eight or 10 hours going up and at 4300m high we took six to eight hours to make our way down,” he said. “We were given special plastic bags to defecate in and carry with us on our trip and coming back down. “They are very strict and have managed to keep the area very clean and well maintained,” he said. The pair spent two weeks on the mountain at between 4300 and 6000m and on the last few days of the attempt to summit they were hanging between 5000 and 6000m waiting for a window of opportnity to reach the top. Although Bolhuis’s attempts to summit the mountain four times did not succeed, owing to dangerous weather conditions, he is still determined to try again. “We want people to know that we are there for them if they feel the authorities have not dealt with their problem adequately. “With our 35 years of experience we have noted how and when most of these crimes are committed in the family structure, children are the most neglected and affected.” Bolhuis said it was once the family structure became vulnerable that children became susceptible to alcohol, drug abuse and eventually got involved in gangs. “We try to rehabilitate the relationships or family and steer the male figure to walk the walk and be the man he should be. “I’m a Christian and try to give a better alternative to live by putting their relationship in God,” said Bolhuis. One half of the Specialist Investigators Into Serious Violent and Serious Economic Crimes company, he said once he and his team got involved to help families they only gave them one chance to put things right. He said they also worked closely with the police as they had managed to identify roughly 20% of police units that were not corrupt. “The main thing is to do proper crime prevention and to re-establish the perpetrators back into society as better people and to the benefit of society. “We’re straightforward with the people we assist and if there is a need to remove the children from an unhealthy environment, we will,” Bolhuis said. Daily News