EnviroServ, the billion-rand waste management company, is being criminally charged with contravening the National Air Quality Act, although the court heard that other charges would likely be added and there was the possibility of additions to the accused list. Appearing in his capacity as company chief executive officer, Dean Thompson entered the court looking uncomfortable as residents from areas near the landfill started heckling him from the gallery. He turned away as some visibly angry community members - dressed in T-Shirts emblazoned with “EnviroServ must fall” - started jeering, “come and stay at my house. Bring your kids”, and shouting that the company was poisoning them. EnviroServ has incurred the wrath of communities near the landfill, which have accused the waste disposal giant of releasing “toxic fumes” from the site, making them sick. The company has denied any culpability for the ill health of residents. Magistrate Blessing Msani postponed the case to August 17 for finalisation of charges, with both parties in agreement. Senior State advocate Yuri Gangai said the charge sheet was not final as new charges could possibly be added and the number of accused might also increase because of new information recently being made available. Thompson left the courtroom quickly as soon as the matter was adjourned. “This morning’s postponement of the criminal matter between EnviroServ and the State by the Durban Magistrate’s Court comes as a surprise to us,” he said afterwards. “When we said that proceedings against EnviroServ had been launched prematurely and before we could finalise our expert reports, we were told the State had enough evidence to secure a conviction. “It has emerged this morning that they not only need to review the charge sheet but also to gather further evidence.” In an earlier press release, Thompson said the company had filed an appeal against the Department of Environmental Affairs’ notice to suspend its waste-management licence. “We believe the suspension notice was premature and in breach of an agreement concluded with the DEA that final reports from our experts would be presented on April 10, 2017 for further consideration,” he said. Last night, members of Upper Highway Air, the group fighting for the shutdown of the landfill site, said it welcomed the prospect that EnviroServ could face new charges. “It is a good thing that there is new evidence and that new charges might be added,” said Lauren Johnson, the group’s spokesperson. The group has mounted its own civil matter against EnviroServ. Daily News