Yanti Nunnan has just been named the Female Under-8 Youth Player of the Year in the first National Youth Chess Awards in Joburg, while Aarti Datharam took the Female Under-10 Youth Player of the Year title, and Naseem Ahmed Essa was honoured with the Male Under-14 Youth Player of the Year.- All three had gained their national colours and represented the country at international and continental chess tournaments during the 2015/2016 Junior Chess Season, a statement from Chess SA said. Yanti, now 9, has a long list of accolades including winning a gold medal at the African Youth Chess Championship 2016, taking part in the South African Junior Closed Chess Championship 2016 and representing South Africa at the Commonwealth Chess Championship 2016 in Sri Lanka. Yanti’s mother Raksha said that her chess-playing daughter, a pupil at Glenwood Preparatory School, was a dedicated player. “She takes it very seriously,” she said. Aarti, who attends Umhlali Preparatory School, has previously said that chess helped her to be good at maths. With a string of honours under her belt, she aims to become a grand master one day. Nominated for the KZN School Sport Awards in 2015, Aarti went on to become the top-rated Under-10 girl player in KZN and South Africa last year. Last year, she also won gold medals at the South African Junior Closed Chess Championship and the African Youth Chess Championships. Aarti was the only player in the championship to achieve a full score. Her dad, Kiran, said last night: “I also play chess, but I am nowhere near as good as Aarti.” Naseem, in the elite academy for advanced pupils at Glenwood Boys’ High School, obtained the Fide (Federation Internationale des Echecs) Master title at the African Youth Chess Championships in 2015 and also brought home a gold medal. He won a silver medal at the South African Junior Chess Closed Championships 2016, represented the country at the World Youth Chess Championship 2016, won the KZN Under-14 trials last year and was named the Best Junior at the eThekwini Mayoral Chess Cup. Naseem was also focused 
on becoming a grand master, his mother Fatima said last night. Erick Takawira, the president of Chess KZN, said last night: “We are very proud of the three players as they continue to put KZN on the chess map, not only in South Africa, but Africa as a whole.” Daily News 