Washington - Since entering office, President Donald Trump has used Twitter to issue declarations on everything from America's geopolitical rivals to his personal feuds with the likes of Arnold Schwarzenegger. As Trump prepares to mark 100 days in office this weekend, AFP looks back at 10 Tweets that have characterized the opening phase of his presidency:  "We will follow two simple rules: BUY AMERICAN & HIRE AMERICAN" – setting out his governing mantra on January 20 after his inauguration. "We must keep 'evil' out of our country!" – justifying his ban on travellers from a group of mainly Muslim countries, on February 3. "What is our country coming to when a judge can halt a Homeland Security travel ban and anyone, even with bad intentions, can come into U.S.?" – reacting after the ban was subsequently blocked.  "North Korea is behaving very badly. They have been 'playing' the United States for years. China has done little to help!" – voicing frustration with both Pyongyang and Beijing over North Korea's nuclear program on March 17. "Why would I call China a currency manipulator when they are working with us on the North Korean problem? We will see what happens!" – Trump has an apparent change of heart towards Beijing on April 16. "Germany owes vast sums of money to NATO & the United States must be paid more for the powerful, and very expensive, defense it provides to Germany!" – Trump takes aim at German leader Angela Merkel, a traditional US ally, after a frosty summit in Washington on March 18.  "Terrible! Just found out that Obama had my 'wires tapped' in Trump Tower just before the victory. Nothing found. This is McCarthyism! "-- Trump accuses his predecessor Barack Obama on March 4 of wiretapping his Manhattan skyscraper during the elections. "Don't believe the main stream (fake news) media. The White House is running VERY WELL. I inherited a MESS and am in the process of fixing it" – defending his performance on February 18 after his first four weeks in office  "The FAKE NEWS media (@nytimes, @NBCNews, @ABC, @CBS, @CNN) is not my enemy, it is the enemy of the American People!" – letting rip at some of the biggest names in the US media landscape on February 17. "Arnold Schwarzenegger isn't voluntarily leaving the Apprentice, he was fired by his bad (pathetic) ratings, not by me. Sad end to great show" – Trump reacts on March 4 to the departure of the "Terminator" star, an outspoken critic of the president and his successor as host of the former reality TV show. AFP