Phoswa died of a gunshot wound last Monday. Her uncle said his family was battling to come to terms with his niece’s death. She was the breadwinner and the pride of their family, he said. While there were many unanswered questions, they were leaving the circumstances surrounding her death in the hands of the police. He was speaking after Phoswa’s boyfriend, Samukelo Chili, was arrested last week and appeared in court on Thursday. He was only charged with contravening the Firearms Act and failing to lock a firearm in a safe. Chili, 34, a bodyguard at the uMshwathi Municipality, was with Phoswa when she died. He handed himself over to police afterwards and was released after questioning. He was subsequently charged. Zachariah said the family was now more confused about what really happened on the night she died. “We are in the dark and do not know what to believe. We are counting on the police to solve this case. “We expect the law to take its course and whatever the findings of the investigations would be, the truth will set us free,” he said. Thirteen people were injured on Thursday when community members clashed with the police outside the court where Chili appeared. Violence broke out when the crowd heard that Chili had not been charged with murder. They blockaded the road with rubble and burnt tyres. Police fired rubber bullets to try and disperse the angry crowd. Zachariah said Phoswa’s parents and two brothers had been killed in 1997 in the same house where she died. They were attacked by unknown men during a surge in political violence in the area. He said Phoswa, like her parents, had been a dedicated member of the ANC. “She was a brave woman. Even after her parents and brothers were killed in that house because of their affiliation with the ANC, she refused to move. Her siblings moved out to stay with relatives,” he said. Recalling Phoswa’s appointment as deputy mayor, eight months ago, he said his niece had been excited about the things she wanted to do for the Richmond community and her family. Phoswa’s death comes after the murder of Richmond municipal manager Edward Sibusiso Sithole, who was ambushed in the area last month. Transport, Community Safety and Liaison MEC 
Mxolisi Kaunda condemned the violence outside the court last week. “Let us not do anything to worsen the situation and which further reflects negatively on the town of Richmond. “We need to avoid anything that will further cause tensions and put the lives of the people in danger,” he said. Chili is set to appear in court again for a formal bail application. Phoswa was buried on Saturday. Natasha Ramkisson Kara, NPA spokesperson, said the murder matter was not enrolled in court because of insufficient evidence. Daily News