While Spill Tech, the emergency rapid response contractor, has been quiet on details of the clean-up operation, environmentalists are calling on the eThekwini Municipality to test water samples to determine the impact on marine life. A source closely linked to the operation said the clean-up was far from over and the company had two teams working around the clock. During the massive warehouse fire last month, smoke had engulfed the city. A report on the matter is expected to be tabled at the eThekwini Municipality’s executive committee meeting. The Daily News last week reported on the concerns from the South Durban Basin community, which is surrounded by oil refineries, about the city’s alleged lack of an emergency response plan should a disaster strike. The Clairwood Residents and Ratepayers Association said it had been worried “way before” the warehouse fire incident. “During the recent fire, we sent out a message to our WhatsApp chat group, alerting our members to evacuate if wind diverted smoke to their homes. Evacuate to where? We don’t know. “This is not an exaggeration; it’s scary because we are surrounded by all these underground pipes, warehouses and refineries. We are worried,” said association spokesperson Ravin Brijlal. Adding to these concerns now is the wax spillage from this fire. The wax is now in the canal, which flows into the uMhlatuzana River and into Durban harbour. “There are two teams of about 30 working day and night shifts. If you look from Bayhead or Edwin Swales you can see the wax all the way down the river. “That blaze resulted in material at the warehouse melting and when the blaze was doused, the heat was so intense that the melted material landed in the Canal and river. It has since cooled down, hence the hard surface on top of the water.” Brijlal said the wax 
covered a vast stretch of the river and that it would take weeks for the clean-up to be completed. “There’s hundreds of tons of wax. It’s been about three weeks of cleaning already. “This is a massive operation including trucks, TLBs (tractor-loader-backhoes) and lots of 7m3 skips running from the site to the disposal site,” he said. Spill Tech would not comment on the operation. Gerald Carmody, the managing director, said he could not comment as he was away and referred the Daily News to his colleague, Terence Fynn. Fynn declined to comment, citing a confidentiality clause between his company and their client. “As a contractor, I’m not at liberty to divulge information about this operation,” he said, before referring the reporter to another employee, who also declined to comment. “We have been given strict instructions by the Labour Department not to discuss the matter until the investigation is done,” the employee said. Rico Euripidou, groundWorkSA’s environmental researcher, said they were “more interested” in how the municipality handled the 
fire, which he said could have been prevented with adequate planning and strategies in place. “We’re not convinced at all by their response to the incident. “In 2010, the city neglected a multi-point plan air quality monitoring system, which made it possible to make 
available the air pollution levels on time. Do we know the 
levels of air pollution during the fire? “Even the wax in the canal, the municipality should be able to take samples to check what environmental impact this has had to marine life,” Euripidou said. Desmond D’Sa, of the South Durban Community Environmental Alliance, said the sand bank along the river, was habitat to birds and fish. “This has now been disturbed and at some stage after the fire, fish were found floating in the harbour. It would be interesting to know if tests were done to ascertain the dangers posed by the wax to marine life,” he said. Daily News