The ratings agency - the biggest global agency alongside Moody’s - on Monday downgraded the country’s investment grading, hot on the heels of President Jacob Zuma’s cabinet cull on Thursday night. In particular, the downgrade comes against the backdrop of the axing of Pravin Gordhan as finance minister. He was seen globally as a calming influence at the helm of the National Treasury since returning to the ministerial post in December 2015. The rand has fallen  6%  in the past week. Credit ratings agencies, who liked Gordhan, were widely expected to downgrade South Africa to “junk” status soon. Zuma faces a difficult period, with protests against him planned this week and a possible vote of no confidence in Parliament. Pressure mounted on the president to resign last night as political parties laid the downgrade squarely at his feet. The DA described it as a vote of no confidence in Zuma. DA leader Mmusi Maimane said it was a direct result of Zuma firing Gordhan and his deputy Mcebisi Jonas. “President Zuma should resign immediately to allow a new administration to stabilise our economy. “International ratings 
agencies have long warned this government that our status is on a knife edge. Zuma has clearly learnt nothing from the market reaction to his firing of then finance minister Nhlanhla Nene in December 2015,” he said. At the same time, the National Treasury, under the leadership of Gordhan’s successor, Malusi Gigaba, went on the defensive. “While the leadership of the finance portfolio has changed, government’s overall policy orientation remains the same. As indicated by Minister Gigaba on April 1, ‘government has been, and will remain, committed to a measured fiscal consolidation that stabilises the rise in public debt’,” a statement from Treasury said. “Reducing reliance on foreign savings to fund investment and relying less on debt to finance public expenditure will secure South Africa’s fiscal sovereignty and economic independence,” it said. The ANC Women’s League questioned Standard and Poor’s managing director Konrad Reuss’s objectivity and called the agency “corrupt”. “SA must not be held to ransom by rating agencies that are serving a certain political agenda,” said Meokgo Matuba, the ANCWL’s secretary-general. The IFP echoed the DA’s sentiments, calling for Zuma’s head. “Mr Zuma has actively pursued a downgrade against all sound advice and warnings; and last week with his rogue cabinet reshuffle he put the final nail into our economic coffin. On the back of this downgrade by Standard and Poor’s, Mr Zuma must resign,” said IFP MP Mkhuleko Hlengwa. The Freedom Front Plus (FF+) said the downgrade was proof that Zuma continued to put his private interests above those of the country. “It will be the consumers who will pay the price for this because there is a risk that interest rates could rise significantly in the future, the economic growth rate will be more limited and taxpayers will have to pay for increased interest on government debt,” said FF+ leader Pieter Groenewald. The president was meeting the highest layer of the ANC, the “Top Six”,  yesterday for what were expected to be heated talks. Three of the six, Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, Secretary-General Gwede Mantashe and Treasury-General Zweli Mkhize, all openly criticised Zuma for sacking Gordhan. The ANC’s national working committee is due to meet this afternoon in what is expected to be a heated gathering. Most analysts expect Zuma to survive until the December elective conference when his second term as ANC leader ends. He is due to remain president of the country until 2019. The two rival factions that have emerged in the ANC since Gordhan’s dismissal are now focused on winning the vote at that conference, party sources have said. Zuma’s faction would back former AU chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, while a rival section of the party would likely support Ramaphosa. “He is trying to set the stage to anoint his successor,” political analyst Prince Mashele said. The December vote will involve thousands of ANC members. At least 90% of them will come from ANC branches where Zuma is strong. Reuters and ANA