It is the latest in a spate of similar robberies, and one of them unfolded in broad daylight. Now, some of the staff at Musgrave Centre and Westwood Mall, the two centres that were hit on Wednesday, fear for their safety. A  gang of nine armed men smashed their way into Watches Unlimited and an MTN shop at 5.40am, getting away with watches, laptops and cellphones. Watches Unlimited staff arrived at work to find the front display glass smashed and watches gone. Bryan Maehler, the owner, said it was the second robbery this year and was a big setback for his business. “The shop was broken into on February 14 and the criminals used the same modus operandi,” he said. “Store owners had held many meetings with the centre management complaining about the centre being targeted by criminals, but the management had failed to respond to complaints,” he said. “They are not interested. We have complained about the centre security system. Criminals have broken in several times, and in some instances shops have been robbed in broad daylight.” At the time of publication, Musgrave Centre management had not responded. Employees at various shops said they feared for their lives. There had been a number of burglary and robbery incidents in the past five months and it was not just jewellery stores that were being hit. A  clothing store had also been targeted. “We pray that the robbers do not come during the day, but later in the night when we are not here,” one worker said. While staff at Watches Unlimited and at the MTN shop at the centre were still in shock, staff at the NWJ jewellery store at Westwood Mall were being robbed at gunpoint at about 10am. The shop was forced to close and a notice went up at the entrance saying it was closed for “stock-taking”. A security guard said he was patrolling near the jewellery shop when he saw two men coming up on the escalator. They were then joined by another man and they all walked towards the American Swiss shop, but did not enter it. “When I saw them coming back towards another jewellery shop, I suspected something was wrong and called for back-up. They entered the shop, but I could not see what was going on from where I was. “More guards rushed towards the shop, but we were too late. We gave chase, but the suspects got away,” he said. Staff refused to speak to the media. They were busy removing jewellery items from the display and appeared to be working out what was stolen. An employee at a nearby shop said she saw three men running out and being chased by security guards. “It is scary that as workers we are not safe. Criminals are able to come in and out as they please and that makes us uncomfortable.” It is not clear if the two robberies were staged by the same gang. Armed with hammers and crowbars, a gang has targeted various stores throughout the province. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said they were investigating both mall incidents. Daily News