The National Education, Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) said clinical staff such as nurses, doctors and pharmacists were excluded from this moratorium. The department is apparently investigating the matter. Employees in at least three hospitals (Madadeni Regional, Ladysmith Provincial and Prince Mshiyeni Memorial hospitals) told the Daily News that the work overload in the human resources and supply chain divisions impacted negatively on service delivery. The union is planning a picket to attract the attention of Health Department senior officials to address members’ working conditions. Bheki Ngobese, Nehawu branch secretary at Prince Mshiyeni Hospital, said a meeting scheduled for last Thursday with hospital management was postponed. “The administration staff shortage is one of the issues we intended to discuss at the meeting. People die, get fired, resign or retire, but they are not replaced and the workload escalates. “Fatigue, because of the working conditions, compromises the service rendered to the communities. The hospital has about 3500 staff and services 13 catchment clinics in areas like uMlazi, Mbumbulu and eManzimtoti. The human resources staff cannot handle processing all the various staff transactions,” Ngobese said. He said the existing conditions contributed to the increase in medical negligence litigation. The Daily News reported in October that the department faced R10.6bn in medical negligence claims. The department had issued a Human Resources Management Circular, number 60 of 2015, detailing the freezing of posts and the process to be followed in the filling of critical posts. This came after the provincial Treasury issued a circular on cost-cutting measures, which included a moratorium on the filling of vacant posts. An employee at Madadeni Regional Hospital, which supports 24 clinics around Amajuba District Municipality, said their supply chain division was in a shambles. “There are only four employees in that unit dealing with the procurement of various items and distribution to the clinics. This compromises our patients because there will be shortfalls of protective gear, bandages and other necessities to run the facility efficiently. People are stressed, and spend time off sick because of the work overload. This is a provincial crisis,” said the employee, who asked not to be named. Newhawu provincial secretary Phakama Ndunakazi said the union had raised the concerns with the department on February 22. “Only critical posts are attended to. This is counter productive because more workload means poor service is rendered to the poor. You get long queues in hospitals and clinics because administration and outpatient areas are understaffed. This impacts on the relationship between communities and our members,” Ndunakazi said. He called for the department to come up with a plan to handle the workload in areas where positions became vacant. “These cost-cutting measures need not come at the expense of our members. This is a provincial crisis as we have received complaints throughout KZN,” he said. In response, Dr Sfiso Mtshali, the department head, acknowledged the existence of overworked employees in some facilities. He said they were conducting an assessment to identify all the affected hospitals and clinics. “As a department, we are aware that there could be facilities where employees have more workload than necessary. Once people leave in a particular area, it would seem there is an additional load (on the remaining staff) but that is not always the case. “However, we are in the process of identifying this shortfall. The workload will be distributed equitably,” Mtshali said. He said if an appointment was to be made, an assessment would be conducted to determine whether there was a need for the position to be filled.