Dad Collen started swimming in earnest at Lamontville pool when he realised it was the way to get a job as a lifeguard and now daughter, S’nenhlanhla, 15, is an up-and-coming surfer. Yesterday was a big day when she received her first sponsorships from Rip Curl, Hurricane and Reef. So, she was kept busy pasting stickers to her board before entering the waves in the Corona Durban Surf Pro Competition off North Beach. “I think I have a natural talent at surfing,” said S’nenhlanhla, who started with a coach in January. The Grade 9 Durban Girls’ High School pupil said that, for now, she was surfing for fun but would like to make the South African national team this year, which would mean she would travel to Japan. “I also focus on academics.” S’nenhlanhla said her teachers were supportive and explained work to her that she missed while absent at surfing competitions. Her proud father said he taught her to swim at a local pool near their home, when she was 9, after lifeguards were asked whether their children might like to learn how to surf. By the time S’nenhlanhla finished at Berea Primary School she had also been involved in lifesaving and taken part in many swimming galas. Makhubu has always supported his daughter, making time during his off hours to train along the beachfront for his own sporting life. He will be running his 12th Comrades Marathon this year. “Every weekend I would be back at the beach, watching her. As soon she started to have coaching, it showed in the results when she won competitions.” Sometimes Makhubu has a bonus at work: while he’s on duty at Wedge Beach, S’nenhlanhla may be in the water during his watch. He only started frequenting the beach when he was 24 years old and spotted the opportunity for work as a lifeguard. Before that, Makhubu had hoped to become a professional footballer, but did not have the support that he and sponsors are now able to offer S’nenhlanhla. “That’s why I now try by all means to support my child in whatever she is doing.” He said he was meeting people he would otherwise never have met. “Guys come and compliment me on her performance and I feel so proud. She makes me a human being.” S’nenhlanhla was knocked out in yesterday's open event when the waves were too small, her father said last night. She was hoping for better surf today in the Under-18 event. THE INDEPENDENT ON SATURDAY 