Lindiwe Nxele, who had opened a case of crimen injuria against Patel for allegedly calling her “rubbish, nonsense, trash and useless”, sobbed yesterday as she revealed that she had never wanted the matter to end up in court and all she wanted and still wished for was for Patel to apologise to her. Patel lodged a R3million lawsuit against the State after the charges against him were dropped. Pressed for answers during cross-examination, Nxele said when she consulted with the provincial director of public prosecutions, Advocate Moipone Noko, before Patel could be served with a summons, Noko had not fully explained the mediation process. She said Noko had informed her that they would meet with Patel separately, which she declined. She said she had a problem with them meeting Patel without her also being present. “I felt that this was not going to be justice. I was prepared to mediate if only I was going to be present. It was not my intention to open a case. What I wanted was for us to reconcile. My concern was that he had offended me and I wanted him to apologise to me,” she said in tears. Given an opportunity to meet Patel with the mediator, she would have accepted the meeting because it was what she had wanted. The case emanates from a 2013 incident at Patel’s office involving a message Nxele received that informed her Patel’s secretary, Devika Morar, had called her incompetent and said she could not do her job after she failed to deliver her stationery. According to the evidence by Morar and Nxele’s supervisor Karlien Marias, the woman who passed on the message denied the word incompetent had been used. Angry Nxele told the court she was angry at the word incompetent, which implied she could not do her job. The matter ended up in Patel’s office, where he allegedly shouted at her, pointed a finger at her and called her names in front of Morar and Marias. Nxele got upset when Patel’s legal representative, Advocate Richard Salmon, implied that she misunderstood the context in which some of the words were used. He accused her of being the kind of person who could not be trusted or believed. “The statement you made to the police was not true. You knew very well that he (Patel) would suffer indignity if you laid the charge and you had three days to think about this before opening the case,” said Salmon. Through tears, Nxele said she had told the truth about what had happened on that day. “At this stage, there is nothing I can do to make you believe me. After all, he is a judge and I wouldn’t be surprised.” NPA senior deputy director Cyril Selepe testified that Noko had requested him to review the docket and give her advice on whether there were grounds to prosecute. He said after evaluating the evidence, he told her there was a case. Asked what informed his view, he said: “I would also feel offended if somebody called me nonsense. “There was collaboration in the witness’s evidence that Patel pointed a finger in Nxele’s direction.” He admitted that although he had picked up some contradiction in the statements of Morar and Marias against that of Nxele, he had not drawn Noko’s attention to them as Noko still had to make the final decision after consulting with Nxele and the witnesses. Salmon questioned the purpose of Selepe being asked to review and state his view on the matter if he still did not alert Noko to the contradictions in the evidence, calling his advice “useless”. “I didn’t go through the contents of the statements with her. I was requested to look at the totality of the evidence and I left it there,” he said. The matter is continued on Tuesday. Daily News