Simphiwe Majola, an official from the Department of Transport, along with Meganathan and Nesha Govender, allegedly defrauded the department by overcharging for services, some not rendered, during a five-year period. On Friday in simultaneous raids, members of the AFU swooped on the Queenburgh property of the Govenders, their business premises nearby, a house in Kloof that belongs to them and two farms in Kokstad belonging to Majola and a property in Ashburton, Pietermaritzburg also belonging to Majola. Majola and the Govenders were arrested in 2013 and were charged with the alleged fraud. The cases are at various stages in the court system. Today’s raid was to curate and seize goods from the properties, which the State believes were bought with the proceeds of crime. According to court papers filed by the AFU, in the period between April 2007 and May 2012, Majola allegedly benefited from financial kickbacks while awarding a number of tenders to entities owned by the Govenders. Majola and another Transport Department employee, Sukla Pooran Maharaj, were arrested in 2013. Maharaj was away on holiday with his family on the Wild Coast. He appeared in the Stanger Magistrate’s Court and was released on R10000 bail. At the time of his arrest, Majola was employed as a regional manager for the department and based in KwaZulu-Natal. Maharaj was based at the department’s offices in Stanger, but no further charges were brought against him and he was not added to the restraint or forfeiture order. In his role at the department, Majola was responsible for awarding short-term road repair and maintenance contracts to different companies. However, he allegedly ignored internal procurement procedures and awarded the bulk of the work to the Govenders. Majola stated on his bail application that he had been employed at the department from 1994 and earned a monthly salary of R47000. He was granted R50000 bail after he told the court that he was aware of the investigation, was not a flight risk and intended to plead not guilty to the charges. The Govenders owned three businesses: Barleda 232 cc, Queensburgh Equipment Rental cc and Ubunye Plant Hire cc, which were awarded tenders by the department. According to a forensic report, the couple invoiced and charged the department excessive amounts for services purportedly rendered and charged for services that were never rendered. Investigations revealed that during the five years Majola allegedly received a Mercedes Benz worth more than R430000. It is alleged that the car was purchased by a company owned by the couple. He was also allegedly given several cash payments amounting to R5m, with a R1.5m farm bought for him. Furthermore, a pool was reportedly installed at Majola’s Ashburton home for R83072 and a payment of R146308 was made for architectural drawings for renovations to Majola’s home. The renovation plans were objected to by Majola’s neighbours and the building did not go ahead. The Anti-Corruption Task Team (ACTT) obtained a restraint order late last month from the Pietermaritzburg High Court. The order, granted by Justice van Zyl, stated that assets of R543328926.62 must be seized. This included houses, farms, cars and other property from Majola and the Govenders, as well as their closed corporations. The criminal matter against the trio is set for June. “Upon conviction, the unit will apply for a confiscation order to the value of R543328926.62,” a statement from the ACTT read. Daily News