The zoo has been 36-year-old Opal’s home since birth. For the past three years, petitions have been circulating via social media, and placard protests have been held outside the Pietermaritzburg zoo for Opal’s release. “As a species, they rank among the most intelligent of all primates, adapted to an incredible variety of stimulating, challenging and changing elements in their treetop jungle homes For Opal, nothing of this natural life exists,” read the petition from the Kloof and Highway SPCA. Monkey Helpline founders Steve Smit and his wife, Carol Booth, met Boswell on Saturday to negotiate Opal’s release to a facility in the UK with 20 orangutans. Smit said the helpline conducted research on orangutans in the wild and in captivity and had felt confident that the case they put to Boswell opened the door a little further for Opal’s release. He remained optimistic about a positive outcome. After the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (NSPCA) visited the zoo previously, recommendations were made. “We did recommend that Boswell call in the help of experts in the field of environmental enrichment to assist in providing a proper programme relating to daily activities (for Opal),” said the NSPCA's Christine Kuch. Boswell told the Daily News that Opal would stay at the zoo and those willing to find her a partner could bring him there. “Many attempts have been made to find another mate, but permits have been denied to prevent breeding. "Orangutans are naturally semi-solitary animals. We feel it would be detrimental and traumatic for her to endure transportation. "She receives daily interaction with her keepers. The proposed facility in the UK is not a registered charity, and is in fact a breeding facility,” Boswell added. But Smit said he would continue to engage with Boswell via e-mail and set out their thoughts again about Opal’s release. The helpline, said Smit, had been asked why they were focusing so much effort on Opal’s release when so many other animals at the zoo were in a similar predicament. “While this is to some extent true, Opal’s total isolation from any other animals, and specifically her own kind, makes her case a priority for our efforts,” Smit replied. Daily News