The model is one-10th of the original 4m x 2m design, which is a drone-type device built by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), and the first of its kind in the world. A fully autonomous inspection device, the prototype is being used and tested by Transnet to detect obstacles - livestock or humans - or defects on the track in front of trains, said Ayanda Tyatyantsi, one of the six engineers who spent 18 months developing the concept and working on the prototype. And it is also able to detect cable theft, said Transnet’s chief customer officer Mike Fanucchi. He was speaking at Sunday's session of a conference organised by the National Association of Automotive Component and Allied Manufacturers of South Africa (Naacam), which incorporated the Durban Automotive Cluster’s National Localisation Indaba. “Rail services get disturbed by people stealing things,” Fanucchi told delegates at the Durban ICC. Tyatyantsi explained that Sid is sent down the line 2km ahead of the train to check if there are any obstacles. Sid has sensors like a GPS, and an operator in a control room gives instructions for the device to inspect the track, including overhead lines and signals. The information collected is forwarded via a cloud server for analysis, and the driver is alerted in the event of a problem, giving him enough time to stop the train before reaching the hazard. The device has a cow-catcher at the front to remove small obstacles on the track, like stones. “If there are obstacles on the track, it can cause loss of time and loss of life,” Tyat­yantsi said, adding that the device could revolutionise railway track safety. “There is nothing like Sid in the world. What makes it unique is that there is no driver; it is fully autonomous.” Sid, the prototype, has been tested for six months and the CSIR is awaiting feedback from Transnet. As with any prototype, further refinements might be made. Tyatyantsi and his colleagues are also planning to interest other rail operators, including the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa, in Sid to develop it further and to industrialise it. “We thought it looked like Sid (the ground sloth) from the Ice Age movie, the inspiration for the name. And the name also goes with the abbreviation for the device,” Tyatyantsi said. Daily News