“The strike will affect all bus operators other than municipalities, which translates into commuters being unfairly inconvenienced,” said the National Employers Association. The association said all employers providing bus transport services would institute a lockout from midnight to ensure the safety of commuters and personnel for the duration of the strike. This means no buses will be available from Tuesday morning, for as long as the strike and lockout continue, said Meko Magida, Golden Arrow Bus Service human resources executive. The South African Bus Employers Association (Sabea) and the Commuter Bus Employers Organisation (Cobeo) said employers offered a wage increase of 7.5%, as well as improvements to overtime provisions, and travel and subsistence allowances, which unions rejected. Drivers demanding wage increases are represented by the SA Transport and Allied Workers Union (Satawu), Transport and Allied Workers Union (Tawu), the Transport, Allied Services Workers Union (Taswu), and the National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa). “We are advising commuters to make alternative arrangements for the Easter weekend as unfortunately, buses will not be operational,” Numsa said. “The CEO’s of these companies have until tomorrow night to meet with us to resolve the dispute. We urge the Transport Ministry to intervene to ensure a speedy resolution, otherwise we will have no choice but to strike.” Passenger bus drivers are reportedly earning an average of R5000 a month. Numsa is demanding a wage increase of 15% across the board, and a living wage of R15000 a month for all workers, more and above paid overtime for work on Sundays and public holidays. They also demand a R1500 housing allowance, R1200 sleeping out allowance, and also want to be paid 1.5 times their normal rate when working overtime and double if forced to work on their day off. Sabea and Cobeo said 36 wage demands had been listed in the strike notice, as they were originally tabled when negotiations commenced, and that “they demand a 30% wage increase and have not indicated any intention of working towards a settlement”. Tozi Mthethwa, eThekwini Municipality’s spokesperson, said the municipal bus services were operating as normal. Daily News