However, this apology may not be forthcoming. Thanduxolo Sabelo, the ANCYL provincial secretary, said they would “weigh our options”. “We are not just going to issue an apology as if it is something we planned to do as an organisation.” The ACM had gone to court last week to prevent the youth league from attending Kathrada’s memorial service on Sunday at Sastri College where former finance minister Pravin Gordhan was the keynote speaker. The Durban High Court issued an order allowing the youth league members to attend, but they were instructed not to disrupt proceedings and also not to intimidate, threaten or harass anyone at the service. However, chaos ensued as Gordhan and ANC treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize were heckled and booed when addressing the crowd. As a result, the organisers, the ACM, on Wednesday issued a lawyer’s letter to the ANCYL and Sabelo, calling for an apology. According to the letter, the apology must be published in the Sunday newspapers as well as the Daily News and The Mercury on Tuesday, April 17. The ACM stipulated that the apology should read as follows: “The ANC Youth League apologises unequivocally and unconditionally for the disruptive, disrespectful, unlawful and unacceptable conduct of its members on the occasion of the memorial service of struggle icon Ahmed Kathrada at Sastri College ... We recognise the invaluable contribution made by comrade Ahmed Kathrada in the struggle for freedom and democracy in South Africa. We undertake to take all the necessary steps to ensure that this conduct shall never be repeated. We apologise unreservedly to the family of comrade Ahmed Kathrada, the Active Citizens Movement and to the people of South Africa.” The ACM also gave the youth league 21 days to report back on the disciplinary measures they have taken against offending members. Super Zuma, ANC provincial secretary, said they were still waiting for feedback from the youth league before any disciplinary action is taken. He said a meeting is planned with the youth league once they have this feedback. Daily News