This follows a call by Johannesburg Against Injustices (JAI) for all Hindu organisations to boycott the religious discourse scheduled from Sunday until April 23 near the family compound in Saxonwold. Gert van der Merwe, the Gupta family lawyer, said the messages circulating on social media claiming that the event had been cancelled, were “lies”. “There is not a single grain of truth in those messages. My client is extremely disappointed that there would be people who would stoop so low to prevent others from exercising their constitutional right to participate in this religious gathering,” Van der Merwe said. “I’m conducting an investigation into all the messages claiming the cancellation of this event. We will identify the individual/s responsible for this, and legal action will be instituted for the inconvenience this has caused to my client,” he said. On Sunday, the JAI had said it supported the freedom to practise one’s religion. However, the group believed that it was “highly ironic” and “disingenuous” of the Gupta family to be hosting such a religious function given that the deity being honoured was Lord Krishna who in Hindu scriptures taught about the evils of greed and the seeking of wealth. “While we respect the rights of the devotees to worship, we believe that perpetual wrongdoers must not use religion to conceal their nefarious deeds or as some kind of public relations exercise to turn the tide of public opinion,” Peggy Pillay, the group spokesperson, said. Various Hindu organisations were sceptical of the religious function. Swarup Damodar Das, KZN regional secretary of the Ramakrishna Centre, said the purpose of a Shrimad Bhagwat Katha was to cleanse the consciousness of all those who attended, whether “pious or impious”, “saintly or sinful”. “When the motivation of the organiser or person conducting the spiritual event is pure and not aimed at accruing mundane favourability, then the effect of the event is powerful and far reaching for the good of everyone. “The first and basic qualification of such an organiser or conductor is that they must be free from vice, immorality and corruption. So, if the event in question is managed by people with these basic qualifications, then we are happy to support and encourage the same,” Damodar Das said. The SA Hindu Maha Sabha called for caution in dealing with the Saxonwold event. Ashwin Trikamjee, its president, said South Africa’s constitution was one of the “most liberal” in the world, and it guaranteed freedom of culture, speech, and religion. “This freedom extends to all South Africans, including the Gupta family,” he said. “However, that does not mean that South African Hindus importing priests and singers from Bollywood will not attract attention. “This kind of extravagance in the name of religion invariably attracts unwarranted attention,” Trikamjee said. “While one must respect the right to pray and the right to cultural practice, it must not become a tool for conduct viewed by society as directly in conflict with the very morality that one attempts to practise. It is, therefore, a responsibility of all South Africans, whether Hindu or any other faith, to respect the right to worship so long as it’s not tantamount to a breach of morality.” The South African Tamil Federation supported the call made by civil society and other religious organisations to boycott the event. Shirley Naran, spokesperson, said that while they agreed that “this religious event” was for “cleansing ourselves” from our own egos and bad behaviours, the Guptas should cleanse themselves. “The Guptas are known for their unethical behaviour in obtaining business in our country. The point to note is that because we are Indians, and the Guptas are Indians, people in our country think we are the same as the Guptas. “We, therefore, make a request to the family to come clean and apologise to the entire nation for bringing the Indian community in South Africa into disrepute. “Today, people call Indians ‘Guptas’. We take strong exception to being called Guptas. Indians in our country have contributed tremendously to the struggle for freedom and we are seen as part of the broader African nation within our country. “Please note that your money will not buy the Indians in our country. We are principled people who live by spiritual and religious teachings,” Naran said. Daily News