The events will generate or sustain 2400 full-time jobs, James Seymour said on Thursday. The three big gatherings - the World Economic Forum Africa, the annual Indaba tourism trade show and the African Renaissance conference - are among the 20 big national, regional and international conferences the bureau has attracted to the city this year, with the total economic impact worth R500m. “It’s going to be a good month for business conferences,” said leading hotelier Mike Jackson, adding the city needed a big conference every month. About 5000 delegates from Africa and around the world are expected to fly in for the prestigious World Economic Forum Africa from May 3-5, with the heads of state and government ministers staying at the Hilton Hotel, next to the International Convention Centre. With such high-profile guests in town, security will be tight around the two venues, known as the “island site”. Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs MEC Sihle Zikalala said recently that the government had lobbied for WEF Africa to come to Durban as it was an opportunity for the region to sell itself as an investment and tourism destination of choice. WEF Africa has said the gathering, which will bring together regional and global leaders from business, government and civil society, will explore methods to create economic opportunities for all. “The host country - the only African G20 economy - is championing reforms to eradicate extreme poverty and promote shared growth nationally, regionally and globally. The host city offers insights on how trade in regionally manufactured goods can strengthen economic resilience and create jobs,” a WEF Africa statement said. The ICC executive chef, John Moatshe, has customised a range of menus for the event to provide an authentic taste of Durban for delegates Thousands of delegates will also descend on Durban for Indaba,  from May 16-18, with the event kicking off, and setting the tone, with the annual Tourism KZN breakfast, when MEC Zikalala will share details about new developments in the province and strides towards making KZN accessible. The African Renaissance gathering from May 25-27, will attract 400 delegates, with 4 000 expected to converge for the Africa Day Concert on May 27. Daily News