DURBAN – Singing, dancing and ululation was the order of the afternoon as Judge Gregory Kruger granted interim relief, with immediate effect, on Wednesday, compelling waste management giant EnviroServ to cease all acceptance, treatment and disposal of waste at its Shongweni landfill. The company has come under intense scrutiny as residents and communities near and around the landfill have been complaining for over a year about “toxic fumes” from the site that they believe are making them sick. Heard at the Durban High Court, Judge Kruger did not mince his words when dealing with the company’s senior counsel, Johan Wasserman, telling the Silk that he had to “balance your clients interests and the dumping of hazardous material with human lives”. “I am here to protect the community, not the back pockets of your clients,” said Kruger. “The buck stops here and it stops here today.” Kruger said he was unhappy with the company’s “cloak and dagger” behaviour when it came to submitting the report to court.  In a press release issued last week, the company exonerated itself from any health implications at the site because of the toxicology report, but refused to make the report publicly available. The DEA issued a notice to suspend EnviroServ’s waste management licence in February, saying the company had failed to comply with the terms of its licence.   To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. In April, portions of the company’s licence were suspended because there was a “potential threat to human life” emanating from the “unacceptably high level of landfill gases” on the site. The company is appealing DEA’s the suspension. Responding to the court outcome, EnviroServ’s chief executive, Dean Thompson, said: “With the Durban High Court today granting a temporary interdict against EnviroServ, the company is concerned the science regarding the problems at Shongweni Landfill has been misunderstood.  “The risk now is that the communities may be further compromised by the closure decision as hazardous waste disposal experts fear the malodour will increase.”    AFRICA NEWS AGENCY