Praveen Choonilall, a private property developer who is building three housing units alongside a stream, is adamant that his Shortbridge Place project will go ahead despite the Stonebridge residents’ unhappiness about it. Some of the residents alleged the structure could slide away during heavy rains and that it had disturbed the ecosystem because the land fell under the Durban Metropolitan Open Space System (D’Moss). D’Moss is a controlled area where development may not occur without first obtaining the necessary environmental authorisation or support from the Environmental Planning and Climate Protection Department of the eThekwini Municipality. This is to ensure the biodiversity and ecosystem are not negatively affected. The residents questioned how the building plan had been approved without following proper procedure. The residents also claimed they had not been consulted and that no environmental impact assessment had been done because excavators started digging in August last year. A homeowner, who identified herself as Mrs L Naidoo, said if authorities did not stop the construction, people’s properties would be devalued. “Once these houses are built, my view will be completely affected because they are planning to build right next to my house. “We were never consulted and despite the community expressing their displeasure about this, they are going ahead with the project,” Naidoo said. Roy Moodley, resident and leader of the Minorities of South Africa (Mosa), said he had  taken the development to the area (Ward 48) DA councillor, Bradley Singh, who “failed” to protect the piece of land. “I personally brought this to Councillor Singh in November just after he took office in August. All they did was pose for pictures for the media and it ended there. “What is strange is that the developer has approved plans, but the question is how was this approved? They have interfered with the ecosystem because all the birdlife, frogs, and other creatures have been chased away. “They have excavated the stream and are now putting up gabion baskets on the sides of the stream,” Moodley said. Singh could not explain how the plans had been approved. “Unfortunately, with those plans in place, there is nothing that can be done to stop the development,” he said. Robert Beharilal, chairperson of the Stonebridge Civic and Ratepayers Association, said they had  objected to the project when it had first been mooted about four months ago. He said the developer had no approved plan. “We heard there was no environmental impact assessment done. During rainy days the stormwater drain overflows into the stream and now the area could be a problem during downpours,” he said. Choonilall denied that he was in the wrong, adding that it was people with ulterior motives who were trying to “kill” his project. “At first I missed out on some things during the application process but on March 15, 2016, my plans were approved. I have all the correspondence with the different municipal departments and a paper trail,” he explained on Sunday. Baskets “I have an approved plan and I have already spent about R350000 for the gabion baskets on both sides of the stream. This area was a dumping spot for community members, and a lot of activities including drug-taking took place here. “With the houses and proper lighting, children will be able to walk in the clear to and from the library and the shops,” Choonilall said. He tabled the building plan and the letters of approval for different installations during the building process. “I’m going ahead with this project. Nothing can stop me now because I’ve followed all the proper channels for the approval,” he said. The Sunday Tribune, sister newspaper to the Daily News, reported in August that Tozi Mthethwa, eThekwini head of communications, had said the matter would be investigated. The city is not aware of the development in the area. Responding to e-mailed questions seeking clarity on how the building plan was approved if an environmental impact assessment and community consultation, among other things, had not been done, Mthethwa said: “A building inspector from the city’s planning department investigated the matter on August 16, 2016 and again today, April 7, 2017. “It would be appreciated that more details be provided for us to investigate further.” Daily News