The department last month lodged an urgent high court application to evict the residents from the centre in uMlazi. The Legal Resources Centre, representing the residents, filed answering affidavits on March 7, opposing the application. It was expected that the department would file its replying affidavits by March 10, but failed to do so. Last Friday, the matter was adjourned indefinitely. The residents hailed this as a victory because it meant that they would continue to stay at the centre and also continue to earn their monthly stipend. Social Development MEC Weziwe Thusi sought the interdict to evict about 35 people from the facility, so that it could be renovated. The residents, some living on the premises for more than 30years, had resisted any attempts to move without being provided with alternative accommodation. They also wanted assurances that they would continue to receive their monthly stipend. According to the department’s court papers, the building was described as a danger to the occupants and had been declared unsuitable for human habitation after an inspection last year. The inspector found dilapidated and leaking roofs, no hot water, exposed electrical wires and problems with the ablution facilities, and recommended that the facility be shut. The department had said the occupants were initially supposed to be boarding for a period of between six and 12 months, and not on a permanent basis. The department had proposed that the residents return to their families and make way for the renovations. In answering affidavits, the residents had questioned why Thusi had decided to file an urgent court application this year when the centre was declared dangerous last year. They felt the department had displayed uncertainty as to the reasons for the eviction. “On one hand, the applicant seems to be relying on the allegation that the structure is dilapidated and it is not suitable for human habitation. On the other hand, the applicant is advancing the argument that the building is needed for another group that is intended to benefit from the programme. It is clear that the applicant’s intention is to get rid of us from the hostel permanently,” their court papers read. Thabiso Mbhense, the residents’ lawyer, said the department’s failure to file replying papers meant that the residents could continue to stay at the premises. He said the fact that the matter had been adjourned indefinitely was A partial victory for the residents. Ncumisa Ndelu, department spokesperson, said the matter between the department and the Enduduzweni occupants was still pending. Daily News