Charles Preece, of the Federated Hospitality Association of Southern Africa, said they had known for at least three weeks that occupancy could be low at hotels. The last-minute upswing in bookings they had expected, had not materialised, he said. “It’s tough times,” Preece said. He said people he had spoken to in the hospitality industry in Durban had painted a dismal picture of the occupancy rates. The normal occupancy rate figure for the Easter holidays was about 99%. The average out-of-season occupancy rate was about 68-70%. This was the same rate experienced this weekend, a major holiday period on the tourism calendar. Markus Fritz, chairman of the Durban Chamber of Commerce and Industry’s Tourism Committee, said hotels had a 50-70% occupancy rate. It was “unusual” for beachfront hotels not to be full, he said. There were no water problems, he added. Heather Hunter, vice-chairperson of the National Accommodation Association of South Africa in the coastal region, which represents bed and breakfasts, painted a sombre picture. “Occupancy has been below average. All I know is we have not been as busy as previous Easters,” she said. “It is difficult to postulate what could be the cause of such a downturn in business,” she said. However, she speculated it could be the poor economic conditions, but also that the inclement weather could have played a role. “A lot of people check their smartphones to see what the weather is going to be like and then decide whether they are going to come or not,” said the uMhlanga-based Hunter. However, the offerings and special events at uShaka Marine World exceeded expectations, said the attraction’s marketing executive, Mpume Mthembu. These included the recent Nickelodeon Slimefest and the weekend’s Mega Easter Egg Hunt. “And the private schools are still on holiday,” she pointed out. “For uShaka, the holiday period has not ended. “We now have our celebration marking uShaka’s 13th birthday to look forward to, on Sunday, April 30,” said Mthembu. eThekwini Municipality’s head of communications, Tozi Mthethwa, said there were no water shortages during the holiday period, although there were burst pipes in the Zwelibomvu and Salem areas. “While we appreciate that people heeded our call and used water sparingly, we need to work harder in our municipality to get the message of water conservation across,” she said. Daily News