Durban The dog fighting industry in South Africa has increased by 500% with the breeding of pit bulls becoming more popular and a source of a quick income, said the Pit bull Federation of South Africa. Lins Rautenbach, the federation s spokeswoman, said this in light of the recent theft of a pit bull from Phoenix.Five boys were caught on CCTV camera stealing Rocky, the Moodley family s pet. The children were seen taking the dog through a hole in the &nbsp;garden fence while the family was away.Twelve-year-old Saien Moodley noticed Rocky was missing when he went to feed the dogs. The family was heartbroken as they watched the CCTV footage showing how Rocky had been stolen.His mother, Jayshree, told the Daily News they had spent hours searching for their beloved pet, handing out pamphlets and also offering a R2 000 reward. We purchased Rocky for R6 000 three years ago when he was a six-week-old from a breeder. Rocky was raised to be calm around children and was not a violent dog. We hope he would not be used for dog fighting, Moodley said. The footage showed the boys tampering with the palisade fencing. The boys brought a female dog with them to lure Rocky closer to the fence. When cars drove by or neighbours walked past, the boys pretended to be cleaning the pavement verge. The footage also showed the boys attempting to grab the dog three times between five- or six-minute intervals. Five boys were caught on CCTV stealing a pit bull. Screengrab: Supplied In the end, they lured Rocky to the fence, placed a leash around his neck and pulled him out of the yard. After an extensive search and with the help of Animal Rescue KZN, they found one of the boys allegedly involved in the theft, but were upset when police released the minor after interviewing him.Rautenbach said many youngsters were involved in dog fighting. If a pit bull was stolen for fighting, it is generally your lower level fighters who seize an opportunity to take a dog, go fight it and if the dog isn t killed during the fight, it more than likely will die from its injuries, she said. She cautioned the public not to try to intervene or investigate dog fighting as it was dangerous and should be left to the authorities to do so.Another reason a pit bull may be stolen, Rautenbach said, was that many realised that breeding them was a source of quick income. According to Rautenbach, the average unregistered dog can sell for between R1000 and R1500. If these boys can begin stealing now, what will their future hold, Moodley asked. Colonel Thembeka Mbhele, a police spokeswoman, said a case of theft of a dog had been opened at the Phoenix police station. If anyone has seen the dog, they should contact Jayshree Moodley at 0797767842, or crime stop at 08600 10111.Suspicions of dog fighting must only be reported to the NSPCA s Special Investigations Unit.Daily News