Durban - The decomposed body of a 45-year-old woman was found in a car parked outside her home in Shallcross.The body was found on Monday afternoon after phone calls from relatives to the woman went unanswered. Her disabled husband, who was in the house, had been unaware of her death. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said the woman, Veronica Moodley, was found in a Ford Cortina, parked outside her front door. According to neighbours, she drove a white Golf. The deceased s relatives in Gauteng were expecting her to visit them on December 30. When she did not arrive, they started contacting her but got no response. The relatives then contacted the neighbours to check on her, said Mbhele. Neighbours noticed that the driveway gate and house were locked. They jumped over the fence and went to the house. Mbhele said a neighbour forced open the sliding door and found the woman s bed-ridden husband, who apparently had a severe stroke about two years ago, alone in the house. Neighbours carried him out, helped hydrate him and comforted him. Alarmed by an unbearable smell, the neighbours followed it and it led to the car where the woman was found in her underwear, Mbhele said. The Shallcross Crime Forum stated on Facebook that the body was found on the back seat of the car, covered by two blankets. Neighbours said Moodley was kind-hearted and cared for her husband.They were reluctant to speak about the incident, but said they became emotional when her body was removed by the mortuary services. Moodley had apparently worked for a cleaning company. Neighbours said the premises had three vicious dogs, and one of them was found dead on the property. The road is in a cul-de sac with limited access, controlled by a neighbourhood watchman in a guard hut at the road s entrance. A case of murder was opened at the Chatsworth police station and Mbhele said the police were expected to make an arrest soon. The family believe Moodley was killed by someone she knew. Veronica was missing since December 29. She was my best friend, my sister, my everything, said Leeanne Maharaj, her sister, on Facebook.Daily News