Durban The political career of former KwaZulu-Natal Education MEC Peggy Nkonyeni might soon be revived as the ANC in the Lower South Coast Region wants her appointed mayor of Ugu District Municipality in Port Shepstone.Nkonyeni s name tops the list of three recommended during the area s regional meeting on Tuesday to discuss the replacement of Tolomane Mnyayiza, who died after a short illness in December. The names have been forwarded to the provincial executive committee (PEC) for approval after the regional executive committee has made motivations next week.Nkonyeni served as MEC under former premier Senzo Mchunu s administration, but was unceremoniously removed during the KZN cabinet reshuffle soon after the new PEC, under the chairmanship of Sihle Zikalala, took over. Others who became victims of the cabinet reshuffle were former agriculture and rural development MEC Cyril Xaba and former MEC for sports and recreation Ntombikayise Sibhidla-Saphetha. Moses Mabhida (Pieter&shy;maritzburg) regional chairperson Mthandeni Dlungwane replaced Nkonyeni as the new education MEC. It is believed her unhappiness at the reshuffle influenced her to resign as MPL, and rejected an invitation to join the PEC as an additional member. Independent Media has established that the league in her hometown want her back in politics, to help turn around the district municipality.Nkonyeni was married to Ray Nkonyeni, after whom the Ray Nkonyeni Municipality in Port Shepstone was named.ANC Lower South Coast regional secretary Mzwandile Mkhwanazi declined to confirm the region was lobbying for Nkonyeni. We had a meeting on Tuesday to discuss issues of mayoral candidates, and we agreed to prioritise three names as per the requirement.&quot; The three names would be submitted as a recommendation to the province, which would be meeting us early next week to formalise.&quot; I can t divulge the names, but I can confirm that only three names out of lots of names comrades had come up with had been submitted to the PEC.&quot; We told the PEC yesterday about the three names, and they invited us to make motivations. However, another ANC member who was at the meeting said Nkonyeni s name was at the top of the list.About the fact that Nkonyeni had snubbed the PEC when it invited her to join, the source said it did not mean she could not be deployed to take over other responsibilities. A person can decline this post and accept another position. There is no policy that says if you declined a deployment you can no longer be given another responsibility, said the ANC member. When contacted late Thursday, Nkonyeni declined to comment, saying: I don t know anything. When asked if she was still prepared for deployment, she said, please don t make me talk about these things. I am right where I am right now. When she announced her resignation as the MPL, she said she was migrating to the corporate sector with the blessing of the ANC. ANC provincial spokesperson Mdumiseni Ntuli said he had been informed that Nkonyeni was number one on the list. We will discuss the matter formally, he said.Ntuli said Nkonyeni would not be judged according to her refusal to join the PEC. Each case is assessed on the basis of its own merit.&quot; This is another deployment, and it would be accompanied by the motivation from the region. Anything is possible. Daily News