Durban You are guilty of the murder of Desiree Murugan .These were the words that brought joy to Murugan s sister, Jennet on Sunday. Durban High Court Judge Thoba Poyo-Dlwati found guilty four of the five people on trial for killing and decapitating Chatsworth woman Desiree Murugan. I am of the view that the accuseds versions are so improbable that they cannot be reasonably possibly true, the judge ruled on Sunday.Sibonakaliso Mbili, a traditional healer, and three others who were minors at the time the murder was committed Mbali Magwala, Mlungisi Ndlovu and Thuso Thelejane were found guilty of Murugan s murder.Mbili was acquitted on the charge of conspiracy to commit murder and his assistant, Vusumuzi Gumede, was acquitted on the murder and accessory to murder charges. Jennet, had attended the case since day one and heard every detail of how her sister was murdered, beheaded and her head transported in a mini-bus taxi in a backpack to Mfume on the South Coast.On Sunday, however, was different for Jennet. I already knew that the judge would convict them. I waited to experience the pleasure of hearing the judge say it. Justice was served today, she said.Murugan was lured to a sports ground in Shallcross where she was stabbed 192 times and beheaded.Her body was found by municipal workers and her head was found a few days later buried at the home of the traditional healer.Jennet is now waiting in anticipation for the sentencing scheduled for April 3.She said her prayer was for her sister s killers to get the kind of sentence fit for people their age. Although three of the convicted killers were minors at the time they committed the crime, they wasted two years misleading the court by lying to the court until they became adults. They are not minors any more. I hope that the judge considers the seriousness of the crimes committed and not their ages at that time, she said.If it was not for the youngsters who turned State witness, Jennet said the truth would not have come out. I am happy that the judge saw right through their lies. They lied until the end, she said.She was not too disappointed about Gumede s acquittal and felt he had played a minor role but served his punishment by spending the two years in custody.Poyo-Dlwati found the evidence of State witness Falakhe Khumalo, who is currently serving a life sentence for his role in the murder, was truthful and was supported by the two other State witnesses. Khumalo had testified that Mbili told him to bring him the head of an Indian, coloured or white woman and he would pay him R2 million.The judge dismissed Mbili s version that Khumalo and the others would have been commissioned by someone else to get a head and that they were hiding this person s identity and implicating him instead.She said Khumalo and the other witnesses knew how Mbili worked, hence they delivered the head to him. They had taken enough precaution in order to not to be detected by the police. It was highly improbable that they would have been walking around Mfume announcing that they were selling a head, knowing that they could expose themselves to arrest, said Poyo-Dlwati.Daily News