Durban - Four Ntuzuma families are battling to come to grips with the loss of their teenage children, who were killed in a crash in Ntuzuma on Wednesday morning. Three boys and a girl were declared dead at the scene when a minibus taxi and a bus collided on Ingcebo Road, just metres from the Ntuzuma bus depot.Russel Meiring of ER24 said one side of the taxi had been completely ripped open in the collision. He said paramedics found the four schoolchildren lying outside the taxi, whom they declared dead at the scene. Meiring said a number of the patients were children on their way to school.Nkosinathi Mjwara had said goodbye to his daughter for the last time on Wednesday as she and her brother left for school.Mjwara, of Ntuzuma, said he was confused and still battling to accept that his 16-year-old daughter, Thabisile, died in the crash.He often took his daughter and his 13-year-old son, Njabulo, to school.&nbsp;If he did not, then the children would take a bus or a taxi. On Wednesday, they caught the taxi.He received a call from rescue officials, who were able to get his number from his son s cellphone, telling him about what had happened. Njabulo was among the severely injured.The distraught father said Thabsile had wanted to go with Njabulo to school, but did not reach Sibonelo High School in KwaMashu. People have been coming to pay their respects, but I have not noticed them much as everything is still a blur right now. He has not been able to think about funeral arrangements and said he would discuss it later with relatives.A witness at the scene, who declined to be named, said the taxi tried to overtake the bus. She said the taxi was driving at a high speed and there was not enough space for it to pass. What I saw is very painful. There should ve been speed humps here because this road is very busy, she said. Khaye Mjaji was in the taxi. He was on his way to do his first-year registration at Sivananda TVET College and was injured when thrown from the vehicle. When the taxi crashed into the bus, the door opened and the passengers in the same row as me fell out. Some people who were left in the taxi were injured and others died.&quot;I went back to look for my takkie and saw the injured crying. I saw a boy and a girl lying on the floor dead and other pupils were crying, he said.Speaking from the Ntuzuma Polyclinic, 14-year-old Nonkanyiso Dlamini, an Isibonelo High School pupil and passenger, was emotional when she spoke of the ordeal.&nbsp;She said the taxi had been speeding. After the accident, she contacted her father and told him what happened.Lindiwe Msomi, said her brother-in-law called her about the crash, saying his daughter, Naledi Mbatha, a Grade 9 pupil at Isibonelo High School in Ntuzuma, had been injured. I dropped off my child at school and immediately rushed to the scene, she said.Naledi had been living with Msomi since her mother s recent death. A visibly relieved Msomi said she was nervous when she got to the scene and did not see her niece. Once I found out where she was taken, I rushed to the KwaMashu Polyclinic. She was a bit shaken up, but not seriously injured, Mbatha said.Mthandeni Dlungwane, Education MEC, visited the injured at the KwaMashu Polyclinic and expressed his condolences to the families who had lost loved ones in the crash. What these taxi drivers need to realise is that they are not just transporting people around, they are transporting the future of our country, he said.Dlungwane said his department had worked hard with schools in preparing for a successful start to the schooling year and he was very disappointed about the death of the four pupils.Colonel Thembeka Mbhele, a SAPS spokesperson, said the police were still investigating the circumstances of the crash. A case of culpable homicide was opened at Ntuzuma police station for further investigation, she said.Psychiatrist Dr Ismail Moola said parents would go through a range of emotions such as the initial shock on hearing of the news of their child s death, the grief when it sinks in and then anger towards the taxi driver.Survivors, he said, would feel guilty about surviving and question why they survived while others died. The trauma will stay with the survivor for a long time and they will constantly replay events in their head like a video, he said.This could result in them developing anticipatory anxiety fear of taking a taxi or being in another crash. At school also they could struggle academically because they might have problems concentrating in class. What s important is that survivors receive help quickly. Getting counselling was important as there would be long term consequences. Daily News