Durban - Battered and bruised but elated that he was able to help someone in need, was how a Ballito financial analyst felt soon after a dramatic sea rescue in Ballito.Five bathers including a child, who were caught in a rip current and an incoming tide, had to be rescued while being sucked out to sea at Granny s Pool on Sunday evening.One of the rescuers, 29-year-old Gary Barford, who had just returned from scouting for a wedding venue in the Midlands, was jogging on the promenade when he saw bathers looking out to sea and frantic people on the seashore.&nbsp;Barford noticed some heads bobbing up and down in the water. I saw some of the swimmers waving their hands in the air. There was a lot of commotion on the beach so it was hard to get any information out of anyone. I went in and started swimming out in the direction of three people, he recalled.Barford, who usually jogs at lunch time, said he had to do something when he saw the swimmers in distress.During his run he had passed some lifeguards who were had finished work and were heading home. I realised help was not close by. The current was quite strong. Once I got out, I saw one man who seemed to be helping one or two of the stragglers. I then continued on towards a man who was the furthest out. He was bobbing up and down and I could see he had taken in a lot of water. He was really panicked and struggling and I was worried that his panic could potentially endanger me. Eventually I reached and shouted out to him. I tried to let him know I was there to help and that I needed him to be calm. When he grabbed hold of me he did pull me down a bit but that was really just out of panic. I then turned him on his back and grabbed hold around him and started swimming towards the shore. The waves kept crashing on us and it was quite rough. There were a large number of rocks in the area and we were quite badly bashed on them. One big wave made me lose my grip but by then we were close enough to the rocky shore where family members assisted in getting him out of the water, the former Johannesburg resident described. Barford said the man he rescued was not in good health because he had taken in a great deal of water and was in extreme shock. He was vomiting up a lot of water. After the rescue I pretty much just collapsed on the shore from exhaustion. Reflecting on it now I just think about all the reasons that put me on the promenade at that exact time.&quot; The way the man was struggling I don t know if he would have lasted too much longer out there. I didn t sleep all that well last night, probably because of all the adrenalin and the cuts and bruises don t make for restful sleep. Barford said he was not the only person who swam out to help. There were multiple heroes on the day. I only assisted in bringing one man out the water. I wouldn t say I am an experienced swimmer but I have been swimming most of my life. I haven t had any sea rescue training. This was the first time I rescued someone, he said. Quentin Power, spokesperson for Specialised Rescue Unit (SRU), said they arrived and assisted the swimmers out the water and away from the rising tide.There were four adults in their mid-20s and a child approximately 11 years old. They were assessed by Rescuers from SRU and a doctor on scene. Their wounds and lacerations were cleaned and dressed while waiting for the ambulance services. They also ingested lots of salt water, Power said. Paul Herbst, IPSS medical rescue spokesperson, said there was a strong rip current being swept away from the shoreline. He said three victims displayed signs of near drowning and were transported to hospital. Powell warned that if lifeguards have gone off duty, people must stay out of the water or use the shallow rock pools.Daily News