Durban Bluff siblings appeared in the Durban Magistrate s Court on Wednesday for allegedly harbouring a fugitive allegedly involved in several Wentworth murders. The suspect, Jerome Junior Moolman, an alleged notorious Cape Town gangster, also appeared in court on Wednesday.Ryan Ashley Isaacs, 33, and his 41-year-old sister Lindr&eacute;, face a charge of defeating the ends of justice for allegedly accommodating 42-year-old Moolman. His presence apparently spread fear in the Wentworth community after a spate of drug-related murders last year. He currently faces charges of being in possession of an unlicensed firearm and 10 rounds of ammunition.On Wednesday Moolman, of Mitchells Plain in Cape Town, appeared in court for his bail application. However, Magistrate Mahomed Motala told the court Moolman s application would only be considered once a warrant of arrest arrived from Cape Town, an identification parade was held at Mitchells Plain SAPS, and that the further charges that Brighton Beach police wanted to add were finalised. The court heard that Moolman was wanted for a house break-in and murder he allegedly committed in 2002. Moolman was remanded to Westville Prison until his next appearance on January 18. At the siblings bail application on Wednesday in a separate court room, their attorney, Jacques Botha, said Lindr e was the mother of two boys and had been diagnosed with cancer.Botha said she had a doctor s appointment on January 16 when she would be given the date of her operation. He also said Ryan was facing an attempted-murder charge in another court and was confident his client would be found not guilty because a key witness which the case had been built on, had died. Lindr&eacute; is a welding school instructor while Ryan is a safety officer for a local construction company. Acting Magistrate Naresh Bhikha released Lindr&eacute; on warning and Ryan was released on R1 000 bail. Their matter was adjourned until February 9. In November, Ryan claimed in court he was a potential State witness to the murder of 32-year-old Kyle Morrow who was shot outside the Keys Restaurant and Bar in May last year. Ryan was also implicated in the murder of Wentworth resident Brandon Morrison. Morrison and his friends had left a club and were in their motor vehicle, a Hyundai i10, when their car was shot at. Ryan was shot in the back. In court, an eyewitness said he knew Ryan as Skull and also told the court Ryan s full name. The witness was seated in the car when he saw the accused, together with other men. He said Isaacs pulled out a firearm and started shooting at their car and in the process Morrison was killed.Police believe Moolman is an associate of the Cape Flats Americans gang. Daily News