Jojisa’s wife and daughter had only learnt about the charges last week. His daughter wept when Durban High Court Judge Sharmaine Balton handed down the sentence on Wednesday. His wife was not in court. Jojisa lured his three victims to the sugar cane plantations in Mount Edgecombe under the pretence that he was a construction worker. He promised them jobs, saying his employer needed a woman to work in his house. His victims, all from the Eastern Cape, were not in court to witness the sentencing because they had relocated. Jojisa’s lawyer, Patrick Mkhumbuzi, tried to persuade the court to consider Jojisa’s personal circumstances including his age, but Balton said she was not satisfied there were any substantial and compelling circumstances in Jojisa’s favour. “Each of the crimes was committed at different time periods and (they) were totally unrelated. There is no basis on which this court can treat them as one for the purpose of sentence,” said Balton. One of the complainants, a 30-year-old woman, and her cousin met Jojisa in the Bester area on November 27, 2010. He asked them how much they earned, where they worked and promised he would get them a better paying job with his employer. They took a taxi to Mount Edgecombe where Jojisa told one of them to wait somewhere because his employer could only employ one person. The woman had testified that they walked through sugar cane fields and then he dragged her, pulled out a screwdriver and threatened to kill her. He raped her repeatedly. He forced her to sit next to him until the next morning when they left the area, and left her near the road before he ran back into the sugar cane field. She was found by security guards who took her to Mahatma Gandhi Hospital. The second complainant, a 29-year-old woman, met Jojisa at Berea police station on July19, 2011.  She was a student at the Durban University of Technology and was on her way to look for in-service training.  She had told the court that Jojisa said he was employed at Unilever Brothers and that they employed students, and he took down her cellphone number. The next day he called her and they met at the Gateway shopping centre and he promised to take her to his employer’s house. They walked into the sugar cane fields where he threatened her. She pleaded with him saying she was still a virgin, but he raped her.  The third victim, a 34-year-old woman, had testified that she had met Jojisa on a train on March 5, 2012, and he promised to organise a job for her.  They exchanged numbers and a day later he contacted her, arranging a meeting at Mahatma Gandhi Hospital. He lured her to the sugar cane field where he raped her. He was acquitted on a fourth count of rape. Jojisa was identified positively by all his victims. Daily News