At the weekend, the ANC in KwaZulu-Natal called for the units to have members trained to use firearms to protect party leaders from escalating political murders. The unprecedented SDU proposal was made by ANCYL provincial secretary Thanduxolo Sabelo on Saturday during the funeral of Sthembiso Mhlongo, an ANC councillor and Moses Mabhida ANCYL regional deputy secretary, who was shot and killed at his home in Howick, KZN Midlands, early last week. IFP national chairperson Blessed Gwala said Sabelo’s proposal was made out of ignorance of the “damage the SDUs had caused” during the late 1980s and early 1990s political violence between the IFP and ANC in KZN and Gauteng. “We can’t allow ordinary members of the public to be trained to use firearms by a political party, as this would take our country backwards. The truth is that the units operated as kangaroo courts, intimidating people, causing destruction and dividing communities,” said Gwala. Sabelo had said the league would propose the SDUs’ revival at the ANC provincial general council taking place today and tomorrow in Durban.   “Members of the units should be trained to do patrols, and be able to handle firearms so that they can defend their communities and leaders,” he said. Sabelo said it was clear that the police lacked the capacity to solve the problem of political killings in the province. “ANCYL members have  raised their hands to be the first ones to be trained should the government agree to implement this programme. We are willing to serve and put our lives at stake to ensure that our communities are safe,” Sabelo said. He said young people in ­general, and beyond political affiliations, should be welcomed to join the units. He said the units should operate in the form of neighbourhood watches using WhatsApp groups. “In the case of Mhlongo, when these people knocked at his door at 2am, the first thing he should have done was call for backup using the WhatsApp group, alerting people who are on duty patrolling,” he said. The SDUs and IFP-aligned self-protection units were rivals associated with political violence that claimed thousands of lives between the late 1980s and early 1990s in KZN and Gauteng. ANC deputy provincial secretary Mluleki Ndobe said the party would welcome any idea for dealing with political murders, but he said arming communities was out of the question. “It is not ANC policy to train civilians to handle firearms because there are law enforcement agencies,” he pointed out. When approached about bringing back the SDUs, violence monitor Mary de Haas’s response was: “No, no, no. Of course not, because violence breeds violence. No more arms, because we have too many armed people running around.” Daily News