Roskruge, 25, returned to Durban recently after clinching top honours at the Shield Sbonis’ iDiski competition. Roskruge, Joshua Jerome Roman  and Alanzo Khun of Cape Town won a trip to London and an opportunity to train with the English Premier League team Chelsea Football Club in Cobham. Roskruge said he wanted to start training sessions as soon as he landed at Heathrow International Airport. “I wanted to train first and then tour the city later. It was a once-in-a-lifetime experience of rubbing shoulders with some of the best soccer players in the world. To be in their shadows was overwhelming, but I remained focused. There were intense training sessions consisting of ball work, transition playing and shooting at the goals. I learnt new styles, routines and playing tactics,” he said. “The skills and development I learnt will be somehow imparted to the local soccer players. I will give them hope. I want to be a role model as well,” Roskruge said. He felt he did well in the training sessions by following the coaches’ instructions and executing all the challenges to the best of his ability.  Roskruge enjoyed the session on taking free kicks. He felt the players were friendly and warm .“The best advice the players gave me was to work hard. We also jogged a lot. The team was preparing for and focused on their game against Newcastle United,” he said. Roskruge was on the pitch with the Chelsea team during the pre-match warm-up against Newcastle on December 2. He then watched from the stands as Chelsea won 3-1. “It was a whole new world and level of football. We were in the changeroom after the match and the players were hyped up after the win. We met some fans during the game and the atmosphere in the stadium displayed the passion the supporters have for their teams,” said Roskruge. He arrived with a ton of memories and memorabilia from his trip to London, including players’ autographs.  Roskruge, a safety representative at a construction firm, was told to stay fit in case he received a call-up from the club. Friends and family took to his Facebook account to wish him well. Kurt Jackson drew a picture of Roskruge wearing Chelsea kit and labelled the picture QR7. Before he left for London, the Wentworth Sports Federation inducted Roskruge into its Hall of Fame and held a parade for him through the streets 
of Austerville.` Daily News