Durban’s 100km-long coastline is a popular attraction and is the reason people keep coming back to the city. Being on the eastern seaboard certainly has its advantages when it comes to providing recreational facilities for all to enjoy. With the warm weather, warm sea water and warm people, Durban is the best place to be this festive season. In preparation for the influx of holidaymakers, various units within the city form what is known as the Festive Season Management Committee (FESMAC) which is responsible for smooth operations during this period. Various stakeholders within the committee design and implement plans aimed at ensuring that all visitors (local, national and international) are able to enjoy themselves in a safe and hassle-free environment. Safety Law enforcement officers will also be out in full force to ensure that law and order is maintained. Metro police officers, members of the South African Police Service, security personnel and beach law enforcement officers will conduct regular patrols around the city, mainly at various beaches. The Disaster Management Centre is ready to respond to any emergency during this period. During peak days at the beach, children can easily get lost in the crowd, which can be a very traumatic experience for the little ones. It is therefore important for parents to ensure that children are always within eyesight. Parents must also ensure that children wear identification wristbands containing contact details of the accompanying adult person. This makes it easier for officials to reunite a child that has been separated from his/her parents. The wristbands are obtainable from our beach buddies and child-minders who are situated at various points along the beach. The city has employed 69 beach buddies and 32 child-minders who are our ambassadors at the beachfront. They are easily identified by their uniform. Bathing times at all our beaches are from 6am to 6pm. Swimming pools open from 6am to 7pm daily. Over and above the 121 lifeguards employed on a permanent basis, an additional 52 lifeguards have been engaged on a two-shift system. The first group will last from 6am until 2pm when the next group takes over until 6.30pm. Several road safety campaigns have been planned to curb the use of unroadworthy vehicles, drunk driving and irresponsible conduct on our roads. To control traffic on the beachfront during peak days, a traffic plan to eliminate traffic congestion is in place and some of the roads will be closed while others will have access control measures in place, such as boom gates operated by safety personnel. Private vehicles will be able to park at Centrum Site and the Mustering Fields while public transport can park at the Old Drive Inn Site. The municipality has provided a shuttle service which will operate at 30-minute intervals throughout the festive season to ferry passengers between these sites and the beachfront. This is a free service and one of the ways we are hoping to eliminate traffic congestion at the beach and ensure patrons are able to park in a safe and secure environment. To respond to the high volumes of litter that will be generated during this period, an additional 150 temporary litter-pickers have been employed. Officials from Durban Solid Waste will work 24 hours a day on a rotational shift system. The first shift will last from 6am until 2pm, the next group will work from 2pm until 10pm and the third group from 10pm until 6am. While the city has a stable water supply, the drought is not over yet. We therefore urge our residents and visitors to continue to use water sparingly. Saving water and using as little as possible is of critical importance during this time. Some water saving tips include washing the car using a bucket instead of a hosepipe, turning off the tap while washing hands, taking shorter showers, only running the dishwasher or washing machine with a full load, placing a bucket in the shower to collect water while the water is heating up and placing an object in your toilet cistern to reduce the flush volume. Water Enjoy this special natural paradise, take advantage of the warm Indian Ocean that’s perfect for water sports, enjoy the world-class shopping, fine dining restaurants, unique arts and culture and enjoy the magnificent beach promenade and be charmed 
by the warmth and hospitality of
Durbanites. We have a line-up of exciting events in different parts of the city including Fact Durban Rocks, the Durban Jazz Festival, Woz’eDurban Picnic, Umgababa Beach Festival, Durban Underground, Umhlanga Beach Festival, Sapphire Coast Beach Festival and much more. To showcase the city’s state of readiness, Mayor Zandile Gumede will host the Metro Police Day and Launch of the festive season tomorrow, December 12, at Moses Mabhida Stadium. In the evening Mayor Gumede will host a ceremony to officially switch on the Christmas lights on Dr Pixley ka Isaka Seme (West) Street. The ceremony will take place at the Durban City Hall and will feature the singing of Christmas carols and spreading the cheer through prize giveaways, dancing and music. eThekwini is ready to host you. Come and have fun with us,
 responsibly. Enjoy and be safe! Tozi Mthethwa is the eThekwini Municipality’s Head of Communications Unit Daily News