The fights had their roots in claims that Uber operated without permits and was stealing customers from the metered operators. However, there have been no reports of attacks in recent months, said Uber spokesperson Samantha Allenberg and Gauteng Metered Taxi Council general secretary Hendrick Ndou. Allenberg said: “Hundreds of metered-taxi drivers are already using our technology to boost their net incomes, and we would welcome more. We continue to engage with regulators and policymakers to ensure people can move around their cities safely, reliably and without limitation.” Ndou said the rivalry had started as a “good fight”, but unfortunately criminality took over and people lost the idea of what they initially fought for. “There are a lot of groups in the taxi industry and when people saw that we had disagreements with Uber, they seized the opportunity, damaging and burning cars and sometimes stealing money. Blamed He said they were blamed for some of the criminal activities and added that the dispute had died a natural death. There had been no formal meeting to agree to stop the fighting. Business was continuing, with e-hailing operators using their app and metered-taxi operators being called and found at their ranks. “All we wanted was to coexist with Uber where they have an e-hailing licence, while we do our own thing. “But we still feel the government somehow failed us,” Ndou said. Department of Transport spokesperson Ishmael Mnisi said the legislation written for the two operators was yet to be deliberated on. “We hope that in the first quarter of next year everything will be sorted out,” he added. In September, the provincial government said it had since 2015 been involved in various interventions aimed at ending the violence. Gauteng Roads and Transport MEC Dr Ismail Vadi said the interventions were undertaken to put an end to the feud between metered operators and Uber drivers. “The purpose was for Uber and its driver partners to gain clarity on operating-licence conditions.” Daily News