“In 2007, the value of lost time annually was assessed by management services and organisational development to be in excess of R46million per annum and this has tripled since then to about R142m in 2017,” the agenda said. The city employs more than 25000 people at about 700 sites. And 86 of the sites hold 80% of the headcount, with 20 having more than 200 people working at them. These sites include the city engineers and the metro police headquarters, the water and sanitation headquarters and the electricity complex. The biometric readers, which include fingerprint recognition, were easily applied and provided the best “bang for your buck”. Now, mobile readers are to be applied at smaller sites, the report said. This helped to prevent fraud such as identification fraud or “buddy punching”. It was more cost-effective than using the card or token system and removed the need to eliminate paper costs. The system can make it easier for managers to keep track of when staff arrive for work. The biometric readers were set to be implemented over a seven-year period from 2017 to 2024 and would cost the city more than R84m. City manager for finance Krish Kumar said the plan was already in place at some sites and the implementation would be going out to tender. Meanwhile, with the festive season about to begin, eThekwini mayor Zandile Gumede said she was unhappy about the poor clean-up after the heavy rains that hit Durban in October. “Since the storms experienced in the city, there have been a number of tree stumps that need to be removed but no one is taking responsibility for it,” she said adding that grass-cutting and issues of cleanliness also needed attention. Although people were working, the city was still not clean. “We want to see the grass cut and litter being picked up I want it to be done now. “I will deliver on my promise to residents to get the city clean,” Gumede vowed. This did not only apply to the inner city but the outskirts of the municipality as well, she said. A new tourist route was also discussed at the meeting. Phillip Sithole, tourism head at the municipality, said the cultural heritage route would be launched next week. The route starts at the Inkosi Albert Luthuli International Convention Centre, site of a former prison, and will include KwaMuhle Museum and The Workshop before ending at the City Hall. The new route would be inaugurated by 120 children from poor backgrounds. The marketing budget would finance the route, he said. Daily News