Judgment in the high-profile case was reserved on Thursday. A panel of three judges heard two applications on Thursday.  One was an application by the PEC for leave to appeal the September judgment which rendered the 2015 provincial conference, which took place in Pietermaritzburg, and its decisions unlawful.  The other was an application made by four ANC members who asked the court to execute its judgment by removing the PEC from its office in Durban. Advocate Tembeka Ngcukaitobi represented the four disgruntled ANC members, and advocate Wim Trengove, SC, was arguing against the PEC’s appeal against the September judgment which nullified the PEC. The PEC was represented by advocate Thulani Khuzwayo and advocate Greg Harpur, SC. Harpur said since the NEC had not decided to remove the PEC, it should be left to the party’s national conference to make a decision about the future of the PEC. He said the PEC could not be removed because it had crucial tasks to perform in running the affairs of the party. “There would be huge disruption in the performance of the ANC’s ordinary functions if they were removed,” he said. The court gallery was packed with ANC members, including ANC provincial chairperson Sihle Zikalala, provincial secretary Super Zuma and ANC deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte. Ngcukaitobi told the judges that it was legally wrong of the PEC to remain in office after it had been nullified by the court. “The fact of the matter, according to the decision granted by this court, is that the PEC is null and void, and it has no right to remain in the office. “Therefore my client is asking that they should vacate the office because that is the natural consequence of the declaration of this court,” said Ngcukaitobi. It had been left in the hands of the NEC to implement the existing judgment by removing the PEC from the office. But the PEC had argued that it would remain in office pending the appeal outcome. Ngcukaitobi said it would be incongruous with the rule of law “to render a judgment to the very party (NEC) that was before that court”. Ngcukaitobi said the immediate removal of the PEC from the office would not affect the conference as the PEC had no role in the selection of the delegates. Daily News