Durban - The US decision to recognise Jerusalem as the capital of Israel could create conflict between Christianity, Islam and Judaism.
This was said by Shaykh Isgak Taliep from the South African Muslim Judicial Council. Taliep said yesterday: “The city of Jerusalem is sacred to all three monotheistic religions - Islam, Judaism and Christianity - and the latest decision will most likely ignite conflict and religious confrontation in the Middle East.” The move was in violation of international law and undermined numerous UN resolutions, he said. The US moving its embassy to Jerusalem would be complicit in Israel’s annexation of Jerusalem and any chance of a Palestinian state with Jerusalem being its capital, he added. This comes as the US government said: “The foreign policy of the US is grounded in principled realism, which begins with an honest acknowledgement of plain facts. “With respect to the State of Israel, that requires officially recognising Jerusalem as its capital and relocating the US Embassy to Israel to Jerusalem as soon as practicable.” The statement said the move was in the best interests of the US and would help the peace process between Israel and Palestine. Wendy Kahn, national director of the SA Jewish Board of Deputies, said: “The SAJBD recognises the sovereignty of the US, and its prerogative to make decisions it sees fit in advancing its national interest.” She said Israel and Palestine should come to the table and find a way to resolve the conflict. “Our plea to world leaders, including our own government, is to actively put pressure on both sides to do so. The South African government, now more than ever, has a unique role to play in facilitating this constructive dialogue to restart the peace process.” The Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions Movement in South Africa, said: “This is one step too far.” Downgrading BDS spokesperson, Kwara Kekana, urged the downgrading of the South African embassy in Israel. This would send a message to the Israeli government that its violation of international law and annexation of Jerusalem would not be tolerated, he said. “We expect no real action or solidarity from these officials at the South African Department of International Relations and Co-operation including those who, like Donald Trump, speak as if they are pro-peace while their actions tell another pro-Israel story." Nelson Mandela’s grandson Mandla said Jerusalem would always remain the capital of Palestine. The actions of the US once again put it on the wrong side of history, Mandla said. Just like how it backed the apartheid regime in South Africa, the US government was now supporting an Israeli regime that was responsible for a “genocide” in occupied parts of Palestine, Mandela said. Daily News