He said this at the festive season launch held at the Durban beach promenade on Sunday. Zikalala said 18 new game rangers would be employed in 10 rhino reserves and more than 400 environmental monitors would be  employed in 23 Ezemvelo protected areas. A total of 218 rhinos had been killed this year, he added.  Zikalala predicted that the hiring of new staff would start to bear fruit early next year. Due to the high numbers of rhinos that had been killed in the Kruger National Park, poachers had shifted their focus to KwaZulu-Natal. He said the province was dealing with the problem. In a speech, Zikalala said international tourists tended to go to game parks when they came to South Africa. Zikalala said 90% of the game parks were fully booked until the second week in January. The expected influx of tourists meant an increase in jobs and money coming into the province. “For the festive period, our projections are that we will get more than 600000 domestic visitors,” Zikalala said. More than R1.25 billion was expected to flow into the province. This would be an improvement on last year’s figures when the province received R1.21bn from local tourists. About 138000 international tourists were expected, who would inject R106bn into the province’s coffers. It was estimated that the average international tourist spent R773 a day. eThekwini mayor Zandile Gumede who was part of the walkabout at the beach with Zikalala, said a Festive Season Management Committee had been formed to deal with the influx of people into the city.  This would ensure all visitors enjoyed a hassle-free time in eThekwini. Gumede, who last week emphasised that she wanted to make sure Durban was clean during the festive period, announced the hiring of extra litter pickers. Law enforcement officers would also be out in full force. “To control traffic on the beachfront during peak days, a traffic plan to eliminate traffic congestion is in place. Some of the roads will be closed while others will be boom-gate controlled,” Gumede said. She added that when the allocated parking was full, beachgoers would be ferried from the Centrum site parking via a park-and-ride to the beach. Tomorrow, the city would also be hosting its first Metro Police Day.  The event would be marked by a Metro police motorcade which would travel from Oliver Tambo Drive to the Moses Mabhida Stadium.  “Metro Police will have mock demonstrations, showcasing the professionalism and skill. There will be displays by the Dog Unit, the Mounted Unit, a drill formation, an active combat demonstration, an anti-hijacking and a mock extraction from an accident scenario,” Gumede said. Yesterday also marked the end of the 16 Days of Activism Against Gender-Based Violence. “Real men don’t abuse women and children,” she said.