This is according to statistics released exclusively to the Daily News by the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid).  According to the statistics, most of the cases investigated involved the death of suspects while in police custody.  The discharging of a firearm and torture also featured high on the list.  Spokesperson Moses Dlamini said Ipid investigated criminal offences committed by both the SAPS and metro police members.  “Where there is evidence of criminality, such matters are referred to the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA). These are cases that have gone through the courts and been finalised. Clearly, even with the resource challenges that we are faced with, Ipid in KZN has worked hard to bring errant police officers to book,” Dlamini said. “We trust that the message to police officers is clear: if you commit a crime, you will be prosecuted and held accountable.  “Apart from these criminal cases, there are many misconduct cases in which Ipid made recommendations and police officers were found guilty,” he said.  “In a case where a warrant officer from the Sydenham police station was found guilty of killing a suspect, he was sentenced to 10 years for culpable homicide,” Dlamini said.  “In another case, a warrant officer from the Berea police station was also found guilty of the murder of a suspect and sentenced to 18 years’ imprisonment. “In Hillcrest, a sergeant was found guilty of three murders and three counts of attempted murder. He was sentenced to 65 years’ imprisonment.  “Our case workers are put in charge of the matters reported to us and then have to investigate the cases,” Dlamini said. In at least 29 of the reported cases, the officers were found not guilty. In other cases, charges were withdrawn.  Phoenix, Durban Central, Inanda, uMlazi and Osizweni police stations had the most cases in which police officers were under investigation.  Phoenix recorded 60 cases for the 2016/2017 period, while the remainder recorded 56, 45, 35 and 32 respectively.  The stations with the lowest incidence of police-initiated crime were Kokstad and Richards Bay, both 14, Cato Manor and Verulam, both 13, with Brighton Beach recording 12 reported cases.  Brigadier Vish Naidoo, national police spokesperson, said he would comment once he had studied the statistics report.  Mary de Haas, KZN violence monitor, said while she welcomed the findings, she believed it was only the tip of the iceberg.  “There are so many more cases that we deal with on a daily basis and surely there are lots more cases that go without being reported. I am really not surprised at all by the figures,” she said. De Haas added that it was shocking to find police involved in crime.  “Some of these complaints can be blamed on poor management of police. There are instances where police simply do not do their jobs properly. There are cases where police are involved in corruption, assault, torture and collusion.  “Areas with the higher reports are those that have a historic issue with police cases. We have tried to engage with management at those stations, but to no avail,” De Haas said.  In a recent case, four men dressed as police officers allegedly shot dead a suspected traditional healer in oThongathi.  The men are believed to have confronted the man and an argument ensued. The man was shot three times and died in hospital.  The assailants fled in a police vehicle.  Captain Nqobile Gwala, police spokesperson, confirmed that police were investigating a case of murder.  In another incident, a police officer was implicated in the ongoing Glebelands murder saga.  Sergeant Bhekukwazi Mdweshu, 37, was one of six men arrested after probes into murders at Glebelands Hostel. Daily News