“The first week in January is normally quiet, but we are all pretty busy then: it is much better than previously,” said Heather Hunter, who owns a guest house in uMhlanga. Hunter is the vice-chairperson of uMhlanga Tourism and of the National Accommodation Association. She said last week that some B&Bs and guest houses in the area were experiencing the slowest start to the festive season in years. “Some places are already full, though,” she said, but added it was “not a boom”. Further north, in the Ballito area, “things are going very well”, said Cheryl Peters, the manager of tourism investment and marketing of Enterprise Ilembe, the region’s economic development agency. “We are not 100% full yet, but businesses will start to fill up,” she said. While the majority of tourists are normally domestic - from around South Africa - the region had noticed a spike in foreign tourism arrivals. She felt the increase was because of the favourable exchange rate and the fact that the region was being promoted overseas more vigorously. “We will be carrying out research to go deeper into the reason for the increased interest from foreign visitors,” she said. While some people in the industry felt that bad weather kept tourists away, especially those who left their bookings until the last minute, Peters said it did not seem to deter holidaymakers. “It’s raining now and the up-country tourists are still on the beach,” she said. Dumile Cele, chief executive of the Durban Chamber of Commerce and Industry, pointed out that Cape Town had been hardest hit by the drought. She explained that not all accommodation establishments would be able to cater at full capacity “and this, in turn, may drive their tourism traffic towards Durban instead”. The city was expected to attract 886 867 visitors during the festive season “and this will contribute an impressive R3billion into the city’s GDP”, she said. Mike Jackson of Tsogo Sun, which has six hotels along Durban’s Golden Mile and others in uMhlanga, said that while Christmas and the New Year period were always busy, the group was looking at “good occupancies” until January 10. “People are making last-minute bookings and they are looking for good deals,” he said. Tsogo Sun had done well with this and had a rate sale in November, then launched a deal by offering a R750 food-and-beverage voucher for all bookings of four nights or longer. “We must remember that it has not been a good year for the country’s economy and this has impacted on the domestic leisure segment, which has been slower throughout 2017. “However, it does appear that people still want to come to enjoy Durban and uMhanga. It is going to be a good season,” he predicted. Justin Mackrory, chief executive of UGU South Coast Tourism, said the big influx of visitors started last week and “there was still an encouraging flow”. The Ballito and South Coast areas host visitors who have their own holiday homes, so these figures are in addition to those guests who stay in B&Bs, guest houses and hotels. But they spend money in the area, boosting the coffers of the local economy just as hotel guests do. Daily News