In October, the 89-year-old Buthelezi announced that he would be stepping down from the position he has held for more than four decades, and he, along with the party’s extended national council, unanimously nominated Velenkosini Hlabisa as his successor.  The IFP’s national elective conference had initially been scheduled for December, but with branch auditing not wrapped up at the start of the festive season, the conference has now been pencilled in for the first quarter of 2018, the party’s chief whip, Narend Singh, said. “We first have to hold the KwaZulu-Natal provincial conference, followed by the National Youth Brigade conference and the National Women’s Brigade conference and then the main conference.  “All of them depend on the authenticity of branches. “The (auditing) process is under way, and once the process is completed all the conferences will follow,” Singh added. Other than Hlabisa, Singh said no other names had emerged as candidates to succeed Buthelezi, although other candidates could emerge at their conference as the IFP’s constitution allowed that. He said Buthelezi was “president until the conference”, and he would step down at the conference as he has already announced that he would not seek re-election, although many party members had asked him to stay on. “Buthelezi has definitely made up his mind, but he will continue to assist and guide in whatever way he can as the founding father.  “But he will not stand for the official position of president,” Singh said. Despite Buthelezi having been at the helm since the IFP’s inception in March 1975, Singh said the party had capable leaders who would ensure that the IFP remained relevant with Buthelezi no longer at the helm. “Cometh the hour, cometh the man, and if that man or woman has the blessing of the founding father, it makes it so much easier for us as the flock to work around and support that individual,” Singh said. Buthelezi’s anointed successor, Hlabisa, currently the IFP secretary in KZN and mayor of the Hlabisa Local Municipality, said his acceptance of the nomination had not changed since Buthelezi had hand-picked him in October to take over the reins from him. He said for the party to have a hassle-free conference it had decided to postpone all conferences to continue with the auditing process immediately after the festive season.  “I feel the same as I said when I accepted the nomination. I trust and feel that the unanimous decision by the extended national council to nominate me was an indication of the confidence they have in myself,” Hlabisa said. “I remain humble and confident that I will execute the task sitting ahead for the IFP in our country,” he said. Hlabisa added that he had learnt a great deal from Buthelezi, saying he had been his “student in politics”. Daily News