Unlike years of old when they all arrived at the same peak times, drivers had wised up and now left home at various times throughout the day, particularly in the early hours, to avoid congestion at the toll, Road Traffic Inspectorate (RTI) spokesperson Zinhle Mngomezulu said yesterday. Bumper crowds are expected to welcome in 2018 on Durban beaches and many are still frantically searching for accommodation, said guest house owner Heather Hunter, vice chairperson of uMhlanga Tourism and the National Accommodation Association. With enquiries continuing to pour in from potential visitors, Durban B&B and guest house owners have been desperately sending out messages to see who has vacancies, Hunter said. “We’ve been asking if anyone has any space. If there is a cancellation, it is filled immediately.” While there had been a lull in bookings over Christmas, the tide had turned and “everyone seems to want to come to Durban for the New Year”, she said. “While Christmas was a no-no, New Year is a yes-yes. It’s wonderful and it’s going to be a good weekend,” she predicted. Hotel occupancies along the Golden Mile were also high, but there were still vacancies, said Mike Jackson, operations director of Tsogo Sun Hotels KZN. Various law enforcement agencies would be mounting roadblocks in Durban and around the province, with Mngomezulu saying that officers would be “checking everything”, including ensuring that visitors to the country have the correct documentation. eThekwini Metro Police would also be taking a “very stringent” approach to policing the city’s by-laws. As well as random roadblocks, there would also be search-and-go operations, said Tozi Mthethwa, the municipality’s head of communications. And the city was more than ready to receive the influx of visitors now streaming in ahead of New Year’s Eve and New Year’s Day. “The Festive Season Management Committee’s plans are in full swing and (the city) will pull out all the stops to ensure that the various events scheduled to usher in the New Year go ahead without any glitches and that the beach goers are safe,” she said. There were more than 1.6million visitors at the beach at the weekend and the city was expecting even more on New Year’s Eve and New Year’s Day, particularly with the high-profile events planned on those days, such as the Fact Durban Rocks concert. The safety of beach patrons was of utmost priority and the high visibility of metro police and law enforcement officers had already started, said Mthethwa. Yesterday, 531 metro police officers were deployed across all the municipal beaches. Their number would be doubled on the peak days and in the week before schools reopen. As there were only 1 600 parking bays available at the beachfront, the city had introduced a park-and-ride system to limit congestion and to be considerate to beachfront residents, Mthethwa said. “People are encouraged to park at the Natal Command site and the old drive-in site. We have People Mover buses that will ferry people to the beach at no charge,” explained Mthethwa, adding that some 300 taxis were at the park-and-ride facility on Tuesday. Fires “As fires are not allowed at the beach, we have a braai facility at the park-and-ride and many families have welcomed this initiative,” she said. The holidaymakers are in a spending mood too.  The festive season (from December 1 - January 16) is expected to attract 886 867 visitor arrivals, who will directly spend R2 billion. And they are prepared to spend more on meals than in previous festive seasons, said Alister Abrahams of the Circus Circus restaurant in the Galleria shopping centre, eManzimtoti. “They are spending about R100 more on a meal than they did last year, which surprises me. We certainly can’t complain.  “We are hitting our targets every single day and there is no way that restaurants can say they are not making money this December,” he said. Daily News