The boys, Mlondi Dlamini and Libongwe Ngcobo, of Verulam, were best friends. Mlondi’s mother, Ziphozonke, said the children had left home during the day. “It seems they had been playing there (at the river) without me knowing, as they knew that if I found out, I would have disciplined them,” she said. Dlamini said the first sign there was something wrong was when they heard sirens. At first she did not pay attention because it had not been long since she last saw her son. A few hours later, she found out her eldest child had drowned. Mlondi was 10 and had three siblings. Dlamini said as she walked towards the scene and saw rescue personnel, it dawned on her that her child had died and she was praying they would find his body. She said her son had been excited to be going to Grade 6 next year.  “What I miss about him is his stubbornness. “He was stubborn, but would always do things when I instructed him to,” Dlamini said. She said her son and Libongwe were inseparable and had gone everywhere together. The children attended Oakford Primary School. Libongwe’s uncle, Lethukuthula Mthembu, said it 
was difficult to accept his nephew’s death. “I first heard of the incident from my aunt and ran towards the scene. “When we got to the river, we looked for them (the boys), but did not see anything. “We then called police and they quickly came with the search and rescue unit,” Mthembu said.  When the police recovered the bodies, he started to accept his nephew had died. What had surprised him was that the 11-year-old had been sick the previous week and he did not think he would be out swimming. “I am trying to be strong, but Libongwe’s mother, Phakamisile, is finding it very hard to accept what has happened.” Ngcobo would be buried on Sunday, he said. “But we will first go to the funeral of Mlondi on Saturday at his home in Verulam to support them, as it would not be right to have the funerals on the same day. We will then have Libongwe’s funeral on Sunday at Ndwedwe,” he said. Police spokesperson Thembeka Mbhele  said an inquest docket had been opened. Daily News