Major-General Bala Naidoo and Brigadier Nagamuthu Govindasamy Govender will take off their police hats for the last time on December 31. While Naidoo had always dreamed of becoming a police officer, Govender was thrown into the force and quickly found his feet. Speaking to the Daily News, Govender, 60, said he joined the police in the hope of repairing SAPS vehicles. “After school, I planned to study teaching because my mother’s brothers were teachers. “But I also had a passion for auto mechanics. “I worked as a mechanic. There was an advert from the local sugar mill for fitters and turners, and I applied for it. I trained as a welder and a boilermaker before joining the force at the age of 22,” he said. Govender was employed at a mechanic workshop based next to a police station so he had a good understanding of police vehicles. “The workshop was next to the Glendale police station and I was advised to join the SAPS so I could work in its garage. Because of the apartheid regime, you had to be white to work in the police garage,” he said. “While at the police training academy, I was told I would be moved to Kliptown. I did not even know where that was. I just knew it was not what I wanted. My commander at the time swore me. He told me I would go where they wanted me to go,” he said. Govender said by the end of his training, he was at the top of his class and was asked to stay on as an instructor. “Because of my academic record, the same colonel asked me if I wanted to stay on. I took the opportunity because I did not want to leave KZN. I never ended up in the police garage at all because I trained Indian police officers at the academy in Wentworth,” he said. Govender worked as an instructor for 10 years, and in 1991 he was  promoted to the rank of lieutenant and moved to Lenasia. Govender was then promoted to captain and transferred to Kliptown, 11 years after he was initially supposed to have been transferred there. “I worked in Kliptown and moved to Eldorado Park police station where I worked as a station commander. After my service there, I joined the organisational development strategic management unit - and that was by default. “I had wanted to come back to KZN and there was a need for non-whites in the-then management services unit, and I joined,” he said. After going through the necessary processes, Govender was asked to stay on for a year, and then former police commissioner George Fivaz said he could return to KZN. In 1994, Govender came back to KZN, as per Fivaz’s promise. He said his career changed and he was promoted to a rank equivalent to that of a colonel. In 2001, he was appointed the head of strategic development management, where he ends his career. “I have mixed feeling about leaving. “Despite the bad apples, there are good people in the force and the organisation is a good one to work for. “Unfortunately, we have to leave at the age of 60. If that was not the case, I would continue to work,” he said. For Govender, he has learnt about discipline, honour and intergrity,  traits he will hold close to his heart. What’s next for Govender? “Definitely some time to rest and then a long holiday before continuing with charity work.” Govender and Naidoo are committed to working with a number of charities and that will continue through their retirement days.  se-anne.koopman@inl.co.za  Daily News