The department is resealing various roads within the municipality. The exact number of roads was not divulged to the media. Tozi Mthethwa, the city’s head of communications, said the resealing is the process of creating a new protective layer on top of the existing road. This is constructed using either “chip and spray” (a layer of fresh bitumen is sprayed on to the road surface and then uniformly sized stone chips are rolled into this layer), or a “slurry seal” (a fine mixture of stone and bitumen is laid on top of the existing surface). Mthethwa said the benefits of the resealing were waterproofing of the surface, improved skid resistance, protecting the underlying layers from deterioration, extending the life of the road, cost-effective use 
of budgets, greater road network coverage and fast construction. However, residents of Silverheights Crescent, Crimby Avenue and Powerline Street in Chatsworth have complained that the stones came loose and lodged in vehicle tyres, car brake discs and could cause chips on windscreens. Tony Govender, Ward 70 councillor,  said potholes were developing and the repair that contractors were paid for was not done in places. “Silverheights Crescent was resurfaced four months ago but the condition of the road surface is not up to standard. The current surfacing used on this road was slurry seal.  A municipal engineer explained that the road was stripped as the product that was used was deficient,” Govender said. He said the contractor was then advised to rectify this issue while the city investigated problems experienced on other roads. Ugan Naidu, a resident on Powerline Street, said when it was humid the stones got stuck to shoe soles and car tyres. “Our complaints fall on deaf ears. There was a water leak on the road which they covered without repairing it first. Now the water has seeped through the new layer of bitumen and stone,” Naidu said. Mthethwa said the resealing of roads was based on the assessment of a variety of existing surface condition factors that were analysed every second year by the city’s pavement management system. “The data collected from these assessments is analysed to ensure the correct roads are prioritised to obtain optimal benefit from resealing. Roads containing significant defects are not suitable for resealing and require more extensive rehabilitation treatments,” she said. Govender said the paint being used was either of inferior quality or not the traditional road-marking paint because it began fading after a few months. “Ratepayers’ money was used for such shoddy work,” Govender said. Daily News