The department had also questioned why there should be an exception for education employees. The National Teachers’ Union (Natu) had felt that although the University Fees Commission Report released recently by President Jacob Zuma had stated that free education was not feasible at the moment, the union reaffirmed its position that children of all employees in public education must be exempted from paying school fees because they were responsible for the education system of the country. Elijah Mhlanga, the department spokesperson, said teachers’ children did not fall under the category of vulnerable children that the government already accommodated at 3 500 no-fee-paying former model C schools. He said nine million children in the country were already benefiting at the no-fee schools, a large percentage of which were orphans and pupils from poor communities. “Teachers’ children do not fall under this category as they have parents who are teachers and earn a salary and can afford to pay for their children’s education,” he said. He said parents that were teachers chose where to send their children to get their education. Mhlanga felt the government already did much by providing meals in its National School Nutrition Programme and through the pupil transport programmes. Vulnerable “There are more vulnerable children in the country and we need to make sure that they benefit from such programmes. We can even increase the number of no-fee schools.  “At the end of the day, teachers choose to send their children where school fees are exorbitantly high,” said Mhlanga. Allen Thompson, Natu deputy president, said teachers fell under the category of the middle class and the majority found it difficult to pay the exorbitant fees charged by schools. He said they wanted free education to be extended to universities so that their children were exempted from paying fees. “It is frustrating to our members who all do not qualify for NSFAS (National Student Financial Aid Scheme) bursaries and their children are constantly dropping out of universities due to low salaries,” said Thompson. He said they would be taking the matter to the Public Service Bargaining Council. Thirona Moodley, the provincial spokesperson for the National Professional Teachers’ Organisation of South Africa (Naptosa) said they supported the call as teachers formed part of the missing link where their children did not qualify for 
NSFAS. She said teachers were not in a comfortable position financially and most of them were under debt review and blacklisted. “Teachers are married to teachers, and the sad reality is that growth is limited in the teaching profession. They cannot cope financially and are forced to take loans to pay for the education of their children,” said Moodley. Bheki Shandu, the provincial deputy secretary of the South African Democratic Teachers’ Union (Sadtu), said the union did not support the call to only help children of teachers. As much as they supported the call for free education, it would be unfair to ask that this be implemented to only benefit teachers’ children, he said. “Everyone should be given free education, especially the poor. Those who can afford to pay for education should be made to pay,” he said. Daily News