Durban - There will be no trains from Reunion to Kelso on the South Coast after infrastructure was damaged during rains in October. 
Isabel van der Westhuizen, Metrorail KZN communications manager, said the rains have crippled services throughout the province. “Metrorail was able to recover most services but the South Coast particularly between Reunion and Amanzimtoti remained inoperable as a result of washaways and landslides that left some sections of the rail line under debris or hanging in the air,” she said.  At the time of the flooding three of train sets were stranded between Amanzimtoti and Kelso. “We were able to continue running a shuttle service between Kelso and Amanzimtoti with these three sets. The challenge is that these sets are not able to go through to our maintenance depot in Durban for heavy repairs and servicing. Our maintenance on these trains has been limited to that which can be done whilst the trains are in service and does not cover the full maintenance schedule to keep the trains in a safe working condition,” van der Westhuizen said. 
Metrorail have already decommissioned one of these sets as they do not have access to do the heavy maintenance required on the set. The remaining two sets have now also reached a staged where heavy maintenance is required. A decision has been taken, in the interest of the safety of our commuters and staff, to also stop these trains effectively suspending this service with effect from December 16.  Commuter numbers, according to van der Westhuizen, has understandably dropped significantly resulting in very little return for the added expense of operating and maintaining the service provided.  "Commuter representation has been engaged since October 2017 and they will be formally informed of this decision, as is our normal practice. Preliminary discussions reveal that there is support for this decision as the many transfers from rail to road and vice versa are proving costly for commuters," van der Westhuizen. 
The repairs to the affected section of the rail line are still expected to be completed end January 2018. Stations will be closed and no tickets will be sold until further notice. Commuters are advised to find alternative transport as Metrorail regrettably has no buses to offer as alternative transport.  
Metrorail appeals to the community to help with the protection of the stations against vandalism during this difficult period. Commuters in possession of December 2017 monthly tickets are requested to safe guard these tickets an announcement will be made as to how compensation will be effected. "Metrorail understands the inconvenience that this causes to commuters and business but the situation was not foreseen and there is no alternative but to suspend services," van der Westhuizen said.  Daily News