That is what England coach Eddie Jones told Cell C Sharks coaches who were visiting Britain, the team’s chief executive Gary Teichmann revealed at a Durban Tourism launch in 
uMhlanga on Thursday. “Yes,” Teichmann stressed. “We have got it all.” Jones’ and Teichmann’s views echo Durban Tourism’s latest slogan that #Durbanhasmore. Durban Tourism has renewed its three-year partnership with its tourism ambassadors - the Sharks, Ladysmith Black Mambazo and the Golden Arrows - with Teichmann telling the audience at the Beverly Hills Hotel on Thursday that the team “really treasures this relationship”. Durban Tourism hopes that its partnership with its tourism ambassadors and its travel trade relationships will boost its three-year marketing campaign called Discover Durban. Acting deputy city manager Phillip Sithole, whose responsibilities also include Durban Tourism, predicted that the campaign would be a “game-changer that will renew global awareness to new markets and lure more visitors to the city”. Durban Tourism wants the city to be the No1 tourism destination in Africa in the next five years and in the top 20 destinations in the world by 2022. The aim was to promote Durban as a “bucket list” destination, Sbu Zondi, Durban Tourism’s senior marketing and communications manager, told guests. What set Durban apart were the accolades it had won, he said, which included the city being named as one of the top 52 destinations to visit (by Fodor’s Travel guidebook, USA), with the Moses Mabhida Stadium being included in a Conde Nast Traveller online round-up of the 20 most beautiful places in South Africa, and the 
TripAdvisor Travellers’ Choice Awards voting the Oyster Box Hotel the No 1 Top Hotel in South Africa. Helping to drive the latest campaign is a new three-year global partnership with media giant, Discovery. The latest campaign on the Discovery Channel would be a better contextual fit, said Sureka Abbas, director of brand partnership at Discovery Network International. The partnership is across Europe, the Middle East and Africa and across 54 markets, including key tourism source markets for Durban and KZN. And helping to boost the figures to the city is the summer season which starts today and runs until February. About 1.3million holidaymakers are expected to arrive in the city. Durban Tourism interviews with beachfront hoteliers revealed that they would be 80% full from December 21 to January 5, although further bookings are expected in the second week of December. uMhlanga hoteliers report that they are more than 90% full. For the holiday programme details, visit www.durbanexperience.co.za Daily News