The PGC is expected to officially confirm the provincial structure’s nomination of former AU Commission chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma as the province’s preferred candidate to succeed President Jacob Zuma.  Other provinces that have held their PGCs and nominated Dlamini Zuma are the Free State, North West and Mpumalanga. Gauteng, the Western Cape and Eastern Cape have nominated Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa to succeed Zuma.  ANC spokesperson in KZN Mdumiseni Ntuli had last week revealed unofficial provincial figures showing that Dlamini Zuma had been nominated by 496 branches, while Ramaphosa had been chosen by 175, and ANC treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize by only six. A few other branches in KZN had a rerun of their meetings at the weekend.  By Sunday afternoon, hundreds of delegates from the province’s 700 branches converged at the Durban City Hall to register for the PGC, to take place at the Olive Convention Centre. Ntuli said the delegates had also registered to attend the national conference. ANC provincial chairperson Sihle Zikalala was expected to open the PGC by delivering the party’s political overview this morning.  “The election committee would then present a consolidated vote (people nominated for national leadership by various branches),” he said. Ntuli said that besides nominating candidates, the PGC would discuss policy proposals such as the radical economic policy.  “Land and free education will be discussed. We are also going to discuss the proposal of two secretaries-general, one dealing with monitoring and evaluation while the other one would deal with organisation-building,” said Ntuli.  He added that, unfortunately, the Gedleyihlekisa branch in the Durban CBD and surrounding suburbs, which hold Dlamini Zuma’s membership, would not participate at the PGC and the national conference.  “They are not going to the conference as they did not convene the BGM (branch general meeting),” said Ntuli. He said the branch had been experiencing “lots of infighting” as they disagreed on the database, which is the list of eligible members of the ANC in the branch to attend the BGM.  “So the convening of the BGM will exclude others, and that will make life difficult for the members of the ANC. So they are not going to the national conference,” he said. Branch chairperson Mfundo Dobe said he was disappointed at the decision to exclude his branch from the PGC and the national conference.  “We wanted to be part of policy discussions that will take our party and country forward. But we are not surprised because, through disruptions caused  in our branch, we were also excluded from the national policy conference.  “This is done to us because we want Ramaphosa to be the next president,” Dobe said. Daily News