Long after you have 
forgotten all the great presents, that inappropriate and maybe bizarre gift will continue to haunt you. Mine was a Tupperware rolling pin - a useful gift as it turned out, but not something you want to unwrap on Christmas Day. And the secret Santa approach has a lot to answer for, too. This is where people in a group have to buy a gift for someone else, either in the family or at work, but the gift-giver is never named. One office worker told me yesterday of a gift from the company secret Santa - a roll of toilet paper, Chappies bubblegum and a tin of Zam-Buk ointment. Here are some of the worst Christmas gifts that some disappointed people have received down the years. *  A cellphone powerbank that did not work - Former municipal speaker Logie Naidoo. *  A see-through plastic salt, pepper and mustard set with red lids and a red plastic tray - “It was a gift from my boyfriend at the time,” said movie-maker and estate agent Frances Park-Ross. *  A blouse that was three sizes too big - Briony Smith, tourism marketer. *  A pot plant, without a plant - “And I’m not even a garden person,” said Carole Coetzee, chief executive of the KZN Film Commission  *  Whisky and wine - “I don’t drink. I have to keep it all for guests,” said Lindiwe Rakharebe, chief executive of Durban’s International Convention Centre. *  Slimming treatment - Jackie Branfield, founder of the Bobbi Bear Foundation, who at just 49kg was the lightest she had been. *  A hand-knitted green jersey with Rudolph the Red Nose Reindeer and bells - “Rudolph’s nose lit up and my mother made me wear it to nursery school with matching green gloves. I turned it into a cushion and still have it,” said style guru Kevin Ellis. *  Three identical scarves from different friends - Dionne Colett, owner of the Take Note Reputation Management communications company. *  Chocolates, chocolates and more chocolates - “I don’t like chocolate so have to give it all away,” said Alta Keyter, head of communications for Cornerstone Business Strategists. *  The same toy tractor three years in a row from the same person. It must have been on promotion - eThekwini councillor Heinz de Boer. *  A braai on a stand (a copy of a well-known make) that collapsed in front of guests on Christmas Day. - “I ended up with two chickens in the swimming pool and a dented ego,” said marketer Ray de Vries. Daily News 