Chris Ndlela, the former Msunduzi Municipality mayor, said he was “really hopeful” that the resolutions taken, particularly the over-emphasis on unity, were a genuine call for unity. He said unity had always been the bedrock on which the ANC’s constitution was founded. “What has come in to divide us needs to be uprooted from the deepest of the ground and I have no doubt that if all us are committed to it, we will see it (real unity),” Ndlela said. He hoped the party’s call for unity was genuine and not “cosmetic”. “I hope the other resolutions that were taken will find an expression at the level of implementation. Hopefully they will also make us strong because looking at where we are right now we have a lot of ground to cover to go back to our former glory,” Ndlela said. He added that although the composition of the NEC’s top six comes from two opposing slates, it will demonstrate unity of the highest level. “I believe that all of them want to see change,” Ndlela said. Yusuf Bhamjee, former 
uMgungundlovu District mayor, said the manner in which the conference ended was a “huge success” because elections were held and policy documents were discussed and it was now up to the ANC leadership to understand the challenges that lay before them. “They (ANC leadership) need to put in a programme that will win the hearts and minds, not only of the members but the general community at large. “I believe the current leadership has the capacity and the will to do so. It is time for them to develop a programme of action to take us in that direction,” Bhamjee said. Visvin Reddy, the former chairperson of the ANC Chatsworth branch, said not opting for unity would have been the beginning of the end for the ANC because the trend of slates and factions had begun at the Polokwane conference in 2007. “The faction that won (in 2007) removed everyone from the other slate, so you found a leadership that did not comprise unified leadership.” He said this had led to the ANC’s decline in the polls post 2007, eventually culminating in the party losing key metros in local government elections last year. He said that with a national leadership that represented both factions, the ANC now needed to deal with and do away with factionalism and slate politics. Daily News