Last year the province achieved a 1.8% increase and achieved a 72.5% pass rate, a slight improvement from 70.7% in 2015. Optimistic about a 10% increase in this year’s results, a goal set at the beginning of the year by MEC Mthandeni Dlungwana, Kwazi Mthethwa, department spokesperson, said they were confident of an improved pass rate and stood by their target. “Our efforts, the dedication shown by our teachers and pupils and based on the achievements throughout the year, we have confidence that the class of 2017 will make our province shine,” he said. The Congress of South African Students (Cosas) shared this confidence saying excellent results would be the reality. Cosas provincial chairperson Siyabonga Phakathi said they were aiming at achieving nothing less than an 80% pass rate. “We managed to pick ourselves up in 2016; the sky is the limit for 2017,” he said. Phakathi said the dedication shown by the teachers, pupils and the department had been amazing. However, KZN Parents Association Durban South chairperson Vee Gani said a 10% increase in this year’s results was not possible yet. He said it was premature for the department to have such high results projections when the education system in the province was faced with 
many challenges and political interference that led to changes in the management.” The appointment of the new MEC towards the end of 2016, the appointment of a new head of department and the failure to fill posts, including vacant teachers’ posts, created problems that had an impact in the classroom, he said. “I am therefore cautiously optimistic of an increase as high as 10%,” Gani said. Productive Reflecting on the year gone by, Mthethwa said the department had done all it could for both pupils and teachers in order to realise its goal, declaring it a productive year. Mthethwa said the collection of data was under way and the standardisation of the results would follow after Christmas. This is a process conducted by both the Department of Basic Education at provincial level and Umalusi, the Council for Quality Assurance in General, and Further Education and Training. “It was a good academic year. Matric exams were handled well, without major irregularities. Our officials went all out monitoring that everything went as planned. “The marking process went exceptionally well without  glitches that would have compromised the standard of marking,” said Mthethwa. The marking of scripts is one of the most important parts of the exam. “Our professional markers, who are also teachers of the subjects they marked, ensured the marking was of the expected standard,” said Mthethwa. Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga is expected to announce the National Senior Certificate results on January 4. Dlungwana is expected to officially release the provincial Senior Certificate and Adult Education and Training results at the awards ceremony to be held at Durban’s Inkosi Albert Luthuli Convention Centre on January 5. Daily News