Durban - The father of a Grade 4 pupil is taking legal action against a Chatsworth school principal for failing his son and allegedly victimising him for business deals that went sour. 
The parent’s lawyers this week wrote to the Umlazi District Manager calling for an immediate investigation against the school principal for failing to consult him about his child’s battle to cope in the classroom until the last minute. The parent, who cannot be named to protect the pupil, had noticed his child’s poor performance in maths and Afrikaans from term two (June) results. He claimed that the child’s class teacher had insisted that the pupil would catch up although he was eight months younger than the other pupils in his class. The father was shocked this week when he received the child’s report to learn that he had failed maths and Afrikaans and failed the grade. In the letter issued by Shireen Soobrathi and Associates on December 5, after the father received the son’s final report, he accused the school principal of victimising the child and failing him without following proper procedures, which included consultation with the father in time so he could have done something to assist his son. The letter also alleged that there was “bad blood” between the pupil’s father and the principal after the father reported the principal to the Parents’ Association for improperly constituting the budget meeting. In addition, according to the letter, the principal had allegedly phoned the father and accused him of wrongfully creating problems with a Pat Govender “with regards to a business transaction in June”. Speaking to the Daily News on Thursday, the father said he was shocked to find out that his son had failed when he collected his report this week. He said he had enrolled his son in extra maths classes, but it was too late in the year. He suspected that his son was being victimised to get back at him. His lawyers want the Department of Education to investigate the principal’s conduct and the allegations of victimisation. Education Department spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa said his office had not received the letter from the parent’s lawyers. Daily News