The section between Vuzi Mzimela (Bellair) Road and King Cetshwayo (Jan Smuts) Highway is a notorious spot where men pretend to cross the road at traffic signals, smash car windows and grab what they can.  In many instances, women are victims because they leave handbags on the seat.  Candace Davidson, chief executive officer of the Hillcrest Aids Centre Trust, had taken her children to school and was driving alone along Vusi Mzimela Road and had stopped at the Wiggins Road intersection.  The Manor Gardens resident said she heard a loud bang and saw glass pieces scatter everywhere in her car.  Seconds later, a man pushed in his body, up to his waist, through the broken passenger-side window and lunged for her red handbag.  The bag was placed above the handbrake between the two seats.  “It happened in seconds. He shouted, ‘Give me your bag!’ I shouted back several times, ‘Not a chance!’ It must have riled me up and prompted me to  take action. I put the straps around my hand and hung on to the bag for dear life,” Davidson said.   The mother of four said she kept revving the engine and moving the car forward to ward off the man. “I could hear cars hooting, but nobody came to my aid. A second guy banged on my window, but by then I had rolled the car forward and the signal was green,” she said. Davidson warned other women to leave their handbags in the boot. She also stops a car’s length away from the car in front, in case of emergencies. “I have learnt my lesson. I would not drive on that road for a while. It was only when I left the scene that the shock hit me. I thank God nothing bad happened to me,” Davidson said.  Cato Manor police have opened cases of malicious damage to property and attempted robbery.  At about the same time, another woman, who has yet to make a statement to police, was stabbed on her hand at the intersection of Vuzi Mzimela Road and King Cetshwayo Highway while seated in her car at the traffic signal. Mayville police are investigating the incident.  Daily News