And now, “after considering what may be in the best interest of the overall South African economy and the public” while balancing the interests of energy producers, the National Energy Regulator of South Africa (Nersa) has allowed an increase of 5.23%. “As far as I am concerned, considering all the goings-on at Eskom, Nersa should not have granted Eskom any increase. Why should the public be responsible for them mismanaging their funds?” asked eThekwini municipality councillor Patrick Pillay, of the Democratic Liberal Congress, yesterday. Pillay had objected to the proposed Eskom hike at Nersa’s public hearings into the issue in Durban earlier this year. Dumile Cele, the chief executive of the Durban Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said the chamber had lobbied against the almost 20% proposed electricity increase. “Of course, we are happy that our efforts paid off, but the economy is ailing and it still can’t afford the 5.23%. Electricity is a huge component of input costs and it does impact the outcome. The economy is not doing well, which has an impact on job losses,” she said. Various stakeholders, ranging from private people to small users of electricity, to intensive energy users, non-government organisations, environmental activists and local government were among the thousands of people who had their say about the issue. Eskom has said that it was disappointed with the 5.23% increase, which allowed for a revenue of R190.348 billion for the 2018/19 financial year (instead of the R219.514bn it wanted) and is awaiting the decision document to provide an insight into how the decision was made. (The reasons will be published soon on Nersa’s website, www.nersa.org.za). Economist Mike Schussler said that although a lot of people were struggling and would find the 5.23% increase hard, he considered it “very reasonable” as it was in line with inflation. However, there was another problem. If Eskom did not make its profit margin, there was a process to consider. This relates to possible tariff adjustments - shortfalls - from three previous years, with one media report saying recently that the figure could be as high as R60bn. Nersa said last week that it would consider these applications from Eskom after the “due regulatory process”. eThekwini Municipality, which like other municipalities buys electricity from Eskom, will be considering its new budget for 2018/19 early next year, said Tozi Mthethwa, the municipality’s spokesperson, yesterday. Some of views expressed by people and organisations to Nersa about Eskom’s proposed 19.9% hike application included: “A comparison between Eskom and the utilities of 35 other central and southern African countries clearly indicate that Eskom’s staff costs are completely out of control. At 46%, almost half of the operating costs are attributable to employee benefits”, and “Eskom’s (proposed) electricity price increase will have a severe impact on poor households, employment, inflation, businesses, exports and the overall economy.” Daily News 