Festive decorations convey the spirit of love and giving at this time of year, encouraging customers to get in the mood to spoil their loved ones.  Anusha Timul, marketing manager at Galleria Mall, said it takes almost two weeks to decorate the 90000m2 mall located in eManzimtoti on the South Coast. Yesterday, shoppers at the mall, some coming from as far as Ballito and Hillcrest, were seen taking pictures of the decorations and posing for a snap with Santa.  “The festive season is the time of giving and spreading love and we want to reward our shoppers. The centre is going for the traditional and classic theme for this year which is something warm and inviting and our shoppers appreciate the effort we make,” said Timul. “It’s more of an operation rather than a routine. Normally we start on November 1 and take about 10 to 14 days to finish. It’s a very expensive process but it does not defeat the purpose and meaning shared by many of our shoppers regarding Christmas,” she said. While the Galleria opted for the traditional green-and-red look, the Gateway Theatre of Shopping unpacked decorations which kept to their unique elegant theme, according to marketing liaison officer Shevani Maharaj. “Over the years, Gateway Theatre of Shopping has become synonymous with that festive feel and holiday cheer - brought to life with stunning light displays and festive decorations. This year, shoppers can look forward to beautiful Versailles chandeliers, ribbon trees, exquisite 3D baubles, stars with a light curtain motif and much more,” said Maharaj. “This holiday, Gateway will be hosting KwaZulu-Natal’s first Snow World - a family adventure for the whole family. The activation will be hosted on the first floor opposite Mr Price in the former Stuttafords premises. Families can enjoy snow ramps, a giant ice slide, snow play pit, an Animals of the Ice Age exhibition and an arctic chamber,” said Maharaj.  Julie-Anne Zuma, marketing manager at Pavilion Shopping Centre, said this year they had taken an interesting spin on the traditional “to ensure exciting and attractive décor to set the tone for the festive season”.  EThekwini head of communications Tozi Mthethwa said the city decorations at Dr Pixley Kaseme Street, Dr Yusuf Dadoo Street and Victoria Park would be erected within the first two weeks of December.