She had been awarded a scholarship to the prestigious Millennium Dance Complex in Los Angeles in the north Hollywood arts district and had danced with every one of her greatest role models and trained every day for four months with the on-tour dancers who travelled with Justin Bieber, Ariana Grande, Britney Spears and Chris Brown. “But then I realised I was missing dancing in South Africa which has such an extensive range of raw talent and passion and diversity - Bollywood, African, contemporary - that is unmatchable,” said the teenager, who has just celebrated her 19th birthday. So, at just 18, instead of starting out on her US dream career, she decided to return home to South Africa to start an organisation called “Unity”. “It was not just to share my experiences, but to provide all artists in South Africa with a reason to stay here,” she said. “Travelling overseas to pursue a career in performance is expensive and it is only when you get there that you truly realise the dynamics of our own arts industry,” she added. “Unity” is a one-of-a-kind platform for dance, music, acting, film, fitness, yoga, ­performing arts and all things creative, enabling local artists to engage with their counterparts across the globe to share and develop their talents. Workshops and classes will be held with local and international teachers and members of “Unity” will automatically qualify for the chance to win bursaries and scholarships to prestigious global institutions as part of the developmental, talent exchange platform. There will be exchanges with the Millennium Dance Complex as well as the New York Film Academy and sponsorship has already been obtained to bring Chris Brown’s dancers to Durban to give workshops. Key to the international connection will be the creation of local videos, which people will be able to be view globally, thus saving local dancers and other artists the time and expense of travelling overseas to showcase their talents. Van Breda, who is also a talented choreographer, has already assembled some 20 dancers, producers, directors and photographers and they have just finished working on their first video, which will be launched in February. Unity will also be showcased on an SABC2 Essence programme soon - and Unity dancers have been booked to help Durban’s Albert Luthuli International Convention Centre mark its belated 20th anniversary celebrations in February. Daily News