Durban - Thousands of applicants desperate to become part of the city’s metro police have been disqualified from the recruitment process because they did not make the cut.
This is because the metro police unit had stepped up its recruitment process with stringent requirements that enabled it to select only the best men and women for the task, said Senior Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad, the metro police spokesperson. He rubbished claims that candidates were being selected based on their gender and race. “This is not the case. Applicants were invited to apply for the vacant posts and did so either online or manually. We had about 45 000 applicants, with at least 3 500 of those applications completed online. All the applications were handed to our Human Resources Unit which sifted through the duplicate application forms and removed those that were not submitted in accordance with the requirements as per the advert. “Groups were then contacted and asked to come in for the first part of the process, which is the physical testing. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  “They had to complete a 2.4km run, push-ups, sit-ups and sprints or shuttle runs, all within a specified time. For each segment, those who did not complete it within the time were disqualified,” Sewpersad said. Those who made it through the physical rounds were then asked to return on another date to sit their psychometric examination. Candidates are given 45 minutes to answer a series of questions. “Before they sit down to write, they are first screened by HR. We do not use their names or surnames. They are given a number and when they arrive, we verify their details. “This is to ensure the person who applied for the post and completed the rounds of physical training is the same person who writes the exam,” Sewpersad said. “We want to weed out the corrupt police officers and make sure the people we hire now are truly the best for the job. This is a shake-up for us,” he said. However, the recruitment process has not been without rocky patches. At least three claims of corruption have been lodged. Acting superintendent Bongumusa Gwala said they had investigated the claims and although no arrests had been made, they were keeping a close eye on the process. “We have had reports of people selling application forms, someone trying to extort money from applicants in exchange for their CVs being put at the top of the pile,” he said. On average, at least 480 applicants a day were being put through their paces at the Metro Police Training Academy. Superintendent Desi Govender, who has been facilitating the process, said there was still a long way to go before the recruits were dressed in their navy metro police uniforms. Speaking to the Daily News after their psychometric exam, Sphelele Mkhize, Lindani Zuma and Tumelo Motaung said they were confident of doing well. “I am quite fit and very sporty so the physicals were not as difficult,” Mkhize said. Zuma and Motaung said they were both holding thumbs that they scored well in their tests. Daily News