This as the EFF threatened to take the bill on judicial review if it was passed in its current form. The gripe of the Red Berets is that the bill reproduces political power imbalance, and its funding mechanism was inadequate as it still used the disproportionate allocation of funds. The existing legislation provides for 90-10 distribution of funding biased to the ruling party whereas the new legislation envisages a 70-30 allocation with smaller parties getting a bigger slice. “There are no major changes in this bill. Distribution should be reconsidered,” the EFF’s Thembekile Rawula said. The Freedom Front Plus was the first to defend the bill, saying it dealt with “something essential” - enhancement of multiparty democracy and to protect a democratic system of government. “We can grandstand, we can make political points, but it’s unfair to the process we went through,” Corné Mulder of the Freedom Front Plus said. “This needs to be supported It is in the interest of democracy. It is in our interest to rise above party political interest.” IFP chief whip Narend Singh said the bill provided a better distribution than before. The corporate sector would be able to donate to the multiparty fund and donations shared among parties on an agreed formula, he said. “This is a significant move from what we have had previously,” he said. The NFP’s Nhlanhla Khubisa said the report tried to assist smaller parties. “There were parties that were benefiting and the small ones were not. We hope the small parties will get a share.” The UDM and Cope welcomed the bill. The drafting of the bill is the culmination of a resolution taken by the National Assembly six months ago to review the existing legislation on funding of represented political parties. The bill provides for a public fund for represented parties and a multiparty fund. These will be administered by the Independent Electoral Commission and will run as a separate entity managed by a chief executive. The bill proposes full disclosure of private funding above certain thresholds and the funders. All donors listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange are expected to disclose when they make donations to the multiparty fund and directly to parties. The bill also prohibits donations from organs of state, state-owned entities, government departments and proceeds of crime. Funding by foreign governments and their agents will be outlawed. Committee chairperson Vincent Smith said the committee reviewed the current legislation and its regulations resulting in recommendations to repeal the legislation and also to develop a new framework to address weaknesses. “All members of committee agreed that the need for transparency in the funding of political parties is long overdue. “South Africans need to know who funds political parties and the extent of policy influence, if any such, donors 
exercise on party policy choices,” Smith said. Daily News