Local traditional leader Inkosi Thulabezwe Dlamini, of the KwaBhidla clan, said traditional leaders had slaughtered two cows, and invited pastors to pray for the “village daughter”. A  big white marquee went up outside Inkosi Dlamini’s homestead on Sunday for the event, and people were fed fresh meat from the slaughtered cows. Dlamini Zuma is expected to battle it out against deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa at Nasrec, Johannesburg, between December 16 and 20. The winner is expected to be elected in 2019 as the country’s president. “This prayer is for asking God and the ancestors to protect her as she is going to the conference. We want her to be protected since her party, the ANC, is facing lots of chaos,” Inkosi Dlamini said. “We want her to win because she can be a good president.” President Jacob Zuma attended a similar function in 2007, before going to Polokwane, where former president Thabo Mbeki was ousted. He was invited by Inkosi Simphiwe Zuma, his extended family member, to the traditional palace in Impendle, where a number of cows were slaughtered as part of his farewell party. Inkosi Dlamini said his aunt, Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, was a very important person in the clan. “She is exemplary in the community. She is such an inspiration. We want every young woman of this village to grow up to do important things just like her,” he said. Inkosi Dlamini said when he grew up, Dlamini Zuma was in exile, “but I grew up very close to her mother, MaNdlela”. “We are not doing this because we want her to do favours for this clan. We don’t want to put unnecessary pressure on her. All we want from her is to take the whole of South Africa forward, and grow its economy,” he said. A member of the KwaBhidla traditional council, Jacob Nzuza, said it was difficult to get Dlamini Zuma to attend the function because “her diary was too full”. Dlamini Zuma was compared to her great grandfather, Inkosi Miskoffini Dlamini, who was hanged at Pietermaritzburg prison in 1921 for his role in the fight for freedom. “Through her influence we regard her as powerful as Miskoffini. We therefore wish her good luck; as close family members we always wish good things for each other,” said clan member Samkelo Dlamini. Dlamini Zuma told the gathering that as soon as she took over as the country’s president in 2019, she would implement the radical economic transformation policy. She said she would do this despite resistance by some white people. “White people talk too much, saying that we want to implement radical economic transformation so that we can loot. Who are they to talk about looting? They have been stealing ever since they arrived in this country. They stole our land.” Daily News