Speaking just after midnight, after numerous delays to the programme, Ramaphosa, declared the conference a success. He told delegates: “In the months and weeks before this conference, speculation was rife that this 54th national conference would either not be held or 

that it would collapse. Your attendance is a victory over the doomsayers and those who do not wish our movement well. There were some who even suggested that Nasrec would represent the end of the ANC as we would emerge from here divided. We are still here. Standing almost 106 years later. United. Nasrec 2017 has not only united us, it has strengthened us. It has galvanised us and rejuvenated us.” Ramaphosa reached out to outgoing ANC president, Jacob Zuma.  He made several references to Zuma during his speech and closed by thanking Zuma for his 10-year tenure as party leader. Ramaphosa said that the National Development Plan was created under Zuma and South Africa had expanded its antiretroviral therapy programme. “We cannot close this (conference) without paying tribute to you for your contribution over many decades to the struggle for freedom, democracy and development.” Zuma, who was sitting among the delegates, smiled and applauded whenever Ramaphosa referred to him. But he must have been worried about certain aspects of Ramaphosa’s speech - in particular his reference to state capture and the need for action to be taken on the matter, rather than just talking about it. “We must act fearlessly against alleged corruption and abuse of office within our ranks,” he said to loud applause. To this effect, he said the ANC’s Integrity Commission would be empowered to take action against errant leaders. He spoke about revamping State Owned Enterprises which, he said, had been targeted by individuals and families. He said these allegations must be investigated without fear or favour, as must allegations he termed “economic crimes” in the private sector. It was a clear reference to Steinhoff, where billions were lost. Ramaphosa was sober in his analysis of the ANC’s decision to expropriate land without compensation. It had resulted in a heated discussion among delegates which, at one point, threatened to become ugly. “It has also resolved that in determining the mechanisms of implementation, we must ensure that we do not undermine the economy, agricultural production and food security.” Other decisions taken at the conference included: *  The need to accelerate economic growth and create jobs *  Improve service delivery *  Free higher education as of next year and *  Building a non-racial and non- sexist society. The conference also spoke out against the slave trade in Libya and the rise of right-wing movements around the world.  The ANC took a decision to downgrade South Africa’s embassy in Israel to a liaison office, although  the implementation of this and other recommendations can only be done by government. But the string that wove Ramaphosa’s speech together was unity. He reached out to Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, who had run against him in the campaign to be elected the 14th president of the ANC. He reached out to Cosatu and the SACP, alliance partners who had become estranged under Zuma’s reign. “At this conference we are in agreement that the ANC cannot be strong and effective unless we are part of an alliance that is strong, united and cohesive,” he said. He also reached out to all South Africans: “We must focus afresh on the task of building a non-racial country, guided by the injunction in the Freedom Charter that South Africa belongs to all who live in it, black and white.” He acknowledged the important role the media played facilitating the free flow of information and in promoting transparency and accountability. He said an incident at the conference involving a journalist and a security official would be investigated. Meanwhile, the issue of the missing 60-odd votes that threatened to become a crisis blew itself out. It was found that only 16 of those were valid, which would have made no difference to who was elected to the Top Six. Daily News