Durban - The South African Depression and Anxiety Group (SADAG) has said its social and substance abuse helpline will be operational 24 hours a day throughout the festive season. “Whether we turn to alcohol/drugs/prescription pills to help us cope with whatever we’re having to face over the holidays, or as a way to feel more enjoyment during the festivities, the consequences are simply not worth it,” said Cassey Chambers, South African Depression and Anxiety Group (SADAG) Operations Director. Chambers urged those recovering not to give up the progress they made over the 50 weeks for the two weeks ahead. “The problem is that this sets up a cycle where substances are used for short-term relief, but nothing is ever truly resolved. In fact, people often land up not only worsening their existing problems, but also having to deal with an addiction on top of it all,” explained Chambers. Chambers said people living with mental illnesses turn to substances in a misguided attempt to treat the symptoms of their illness or reduce the side effects of their medication. People feel relief in the beginning but the use of substances interferes with psychiatric medication and can lead to relapse and hospitalisation. Moreover, people trying to cope with grief, loneliness, relationship problems or difficult life circumstances may find that using substances helps them reduce the intensity of their emotions or anxieties – even if just for a little while. The most commonly used are alcohol, marijuana, cocaine and prescription drugs like tranquilisers and sleeping pills. There are steps you can take to help yourself stay out of this trap this festive season: Learn how to say no and ask your friends for their support. When going to a party, drive yourself so that it’s up to you how long you stay, and park somewhere you won't get blocked in. Identify what triggers you, so that you can better manage these triggers. Be especially aware when you’re feeling hungry, angry, lonely or tired. Take your own drinks to a party. If your temptation is champagne, then take a flavoured sparkling water instead. Rate situations ahead of time as low, medium or high risk, and try to spend more time in low-risk environments. Avoid topping drinks up – you may lose count of how many you’ve had. Keep an eye on your stress levels and when they start to rise, take a timeout instead of forcing yourself to push through. When at an event, try distracting yourself. Look for an area away from the bar, get engaged in conversations, or offer to help the host. Plan ahead. If you don’t want others to know that you're in recovery, use a thought-out answer for turning down alcoholic drinks or other substances. When a craving hits, try high-intensity exercise, move to a new setting, meditate, practise deep breathing exercises, try out a new activity, or explore a place you’ve never been before. The SADAG’s Department of Social Development Substance Abuse Helpline  can be reached on 0800 12 13 14.  Daily News