The resident, who did not want to be named, said he lived to see the day when all the hit men and the people behind the Glebelands murders, including the police, faced the full might of the law. He was one of the Glebelands residents in the packed courtroom at the uMlazi Magistrate’s Court on Monday to witness the first appearance of the five men, including a police officer, arrested recently in connection with the hostel’s long list of murders. The residents, most of whom were women, spoke quietly to each other. Some men who stood outside the courtroom were heard saying “we want to see them, especially the police officer” as they tried to squeeze inside the small courtroom. Sergeant Bhekukwazi Mdweshu, 37, is alleged to be the mastermind behind the Glebelands murders.  He was arrested at Durban Central police station last Thursday and he appeared yesterday together with Vukani Mcombothi, 25, Khayelihle Mbuthuma, 32, Wonderboy Hlophe, 37, and Matlala Ndweshu Ntshangase, 35, who are alleged to be hit men behind the murders. They all face charges of murder and attempted murder. The men also appeared separately for different counts of murder which took place at and outside the hostel over the years. The number of murder counts was not finalised as police were still investigating. Senior prosecutors from the Deputy Director of Public Prosecutions’ office were expected to appear for the matter next Monday, when the five men make a formal bail application. A team of investigators arrested Mcombothi at the Bizana Prison in the Eastern Cape and he was brought to Durban on Friday. He was wanted for an attempted murder which took place at the hostel in 2016 and was located at the prison where he was held for an unrelated attempted murder case. The team also arrested Mahliphiza Mkhize, 28, on Friday.  Mkhize was previously arrested for a murder that occurred at the hostel and was released on bail. A total of 100 people have been killed at Glebelands Hostel, and only one person, Mxoleleni Bhani, has since been convicted. In attempts to stop the killings, a task team was deployed to probe the murders, the Public Protector’s office conducted an investigation and then public protector Thuli Madonsela visited the hostel. Brigadier Jay Naicker said police had encountered a number of challenges, including the intimidation of witnesses. This made it difficult for the police to make arrests.   Some of the suspects had been linked to the murders of Bongani Mthembu and Thokozani Machi, both Glebelands residents who were shot and killed outside Shoprite in Montclair in September 2015. Daily News