At the offices in uMgeni Road this week, some people were shouting at security guards who were trying to explain why the offices were off-line. This comes as dozens of people queued outside for hours waiting to get assistance from officials.  Security guards at Home Affairs in Dr AB Xuma Street (Commercial Road) were busy turning people away and were only admitting those who were applying for temporary identity documents. A woman from uMgababa on the South Coast said she had been waiting since 6am, only to be turned away. She had gone to the offices to apply for a new identity document.  The irate woman, who asked not to be named, said she had to go to uMbumbulu to get help. “What can you do without an ID or passport? It’s not right that people are being turned away,” she said.  A father had brought his 18-year-old son to apply for an ID book. “I came through with my son last Thursday early in the morning. When we got there they said they were off-line. I came back on Friday and they told me the same story.”  Nothing had changed on Monday, he said. “I don’t know what nonsense this is. Coming to town costs a lot of money,” he said. The man’s son had become tired of making the numerous trips to town, but had to because he would be in matric next year and needed his identity document. He said they were receiving slips of paper which told them to come back next year. Another parent, who did not want to be named, also received such a slip. She was angry at not receiving any information about why the offices were off-line.  She had come through for an ID book for her 16-year-old daughter and she wanted to apply for a smartcard ID.  She said it would be a miracle if the matter was resolved any time soon. Cyril Mncwabe, Home Affairs provincial head, said there was a problem with the department’s computer system.  “This is a national problem where our live capture is experiencing a slow response,” he said. Mncwabe said their computer system had been experiencing problems since last Wednesday and technicians were working on the matter. Daily News