“We are pretty hard-core swimmers, but the pain was excruciating and it was impossible to continue. There was like a web of tentacles and we were being stung for about 90 minutes,” recalled Jean Craven, the founder of the Madswimmer group, which was attempting the record swim. However, the 21 swimmers who were planning to swim among sharks unprotected and complete the fastest 100km swim in one day, from sunrise to sunset, have vowed to try their Great Shark Swim again. “We will go further down south and make sure the wind does not change. It was the easterly wind that brought in the bluebottles,” Craven said. The swimmers were attempting to swim from Park Rynie to 10km south of Port Edward on Saturday to raise awareness of sharks which are on the verge of extinction. The group, which does extreme open water swims for children’s charities, has a string of daring open water world records to its credit since forming nine years ago, including a Guinness World Record for the highest swim ever in the Andes. This was the first time it had failed to achieve its goal. The swimmers, including one woman and seven experienced English Channel swimmers, hail from South Africa, Israel and Spain. They were backed by 24 support team members. The group called in various experts for advice duringmonths of meticulous planning for the daring swim. “We were at the mercy of nature. Weather-wise, no one could predict six months in advance the best day to swim We knew that we would need both good weather and a fast current to attempt a record like this,” Craven said. While the current was not as strong as they had hoped, 1.5 knots compared with the minimum needed of 2.2 knots, they decided to make a go of it. “It was the green light for this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity,” said Craven. But about 28km into their swim, they were struck by the bluebottles. Each of the swimmers was stung and they had to get out of the water into the support boat to take antihistamines and rinse their wounds with vinegar, before returning to the water. “We wanted to continue, but we got a report from the NSRI that there were still bluebottles ahead. There were only four swimmers in the water by then and our team doctor told them to return to the safety of the boat,” he said. The Durban Eddy, which produced a weak current, coupled with the attack by the bluebottles, would probably have made it difficult for the team to set their world record, considering that it had to be completed in daylight hours, Craven said. Although disappointed, Craven said he was incredibly proud of the swimmers who had sacrificed their time in aid of nature. “We would have loved to encounter sharks instead, but we were at the mercy of nature.” They had been swimming 32km offshore and, although they encountered a few small sharks, there was no sign of the big ones they had hoped for. Daily News