But according to Professor Labby Ramrathan, director of the School of Education Studies at the University of KwaZulu-Natal, the economy is not growing to accommodate the graduates as employees. Zuma on Saturday announced free higher education for poor students in 2018 - a move expected to cost the Department of Higher Education an additional R12.4 billion next year alone. Children of entry level teachers, nurses and policemen, and domestic workers with a joint income of  less than R350000 were set to benefit as well as children of social grant recipients. Treasury is reportedly looking at how the additional funding would be made available. According to the Sunday Times, Higher Education Minister Hlengiwe Mkhize revealed that the government was considering introducing a tax on graduates to help fund the free education proposal. Ramrathan predicted the high unemployment rates across the public as well as across graduates would have capacity implications. He said the demand for higher education would increase substantially and the “massification” of higher education would be a further drain on the financial resource. He said while the statement was in opposition to the Heher Commission’s report that declared the non-feasibility of free university education and raised concerns by many in society about affordability and sustainability, one also had to be careful on how it was read. “It says fee-free education - and the lack of details around this statement leaves one to wonder if only tuition fees to university education will be free or would full cost (in
cluding accommodation and 
living allowances) be considered.   “If the latter (full cost) is what is meant by this statement, then the sustainability is of huge concern as the country cannot afford this in relation to the current economic situation,” he said. Teachers’ unions said the president’s announcement for “poor and working class” students would only benefit a minority of public servants. Union The National Teachers’ Union had for the past two years been calling on then-Basic Education minister Angie Motshekga to implement a 
no-fee policy for children of teachers at university level as they fell under the category of the middle class and formed part of the missing middle. The call had been supported by the National Professional Teachers’ Organisation of South Africa, but received no backing from the SA Democratic Teachers’ Union, which had pushed for free education for all and not just for teachers’ children. Thirona Moodley of Naptosa said Zuma’s announcement addressed the call for free education made by many in South Africa including the #feesmustfall campaigns, but said teachers were not excited about it. She said an entry level teacher earned about R250000 per annum and would qualify to send their children to university for free, but the reality was that the majority did not have children at university level. Moodley said the rest of the teachers were the older public servants and due to the length of their service fell over the specified salary bracket, had more than one child at university level and could not afford the exorbitant tertiary education fees. Daily News