Kubie Naidoo had not applied on time, with the admission period closing in June. His granddaughter was a pupil at the school last year and had moved to Johannesburg. She has now returned to Durban.  Naidoo joined frustrated parents whose children had not been placed at schools for next year.  Speaking to the Daily News he said enrolling his granddaughter at that particular school was convenient because it was close to him and he  would save money on buying her a new school uniform.  “She was a pupil at the school last year, but relocated in June to be with her parents. I know that the school is not full, which is what it claims, because it failed to show me a letter of  confirmation from the department to prove that the Grade 5 class was full.” Naidoo said he did not get any assistance from the education offices in Umbilo which dealt with admission queries. Phumla Zungu, a parent of Ntuzuma, has also been unable to get admission for her daughter at any school in Greenwood Park and Redhill.  Zungu preferred her daughter to go to a former Model C school to start Grade 1, because she wanted a better education for her daughter and did not want to send her to a township school. “I do not know what to do. This means that my child will not have a place when schools reopen.” Another parent, who did not want to be named, said her daughter’s application was rejected at a high school near her primary school because of her fourth term results. “I was told that she would not cope academically there; now I need to look elsewhere,” she said.  Kwazi Mthethwa, the provincial Department of Education spokesperson, advised Naidoo to contact the department in an attempt to place his granddaughter in a school. Schools had their own admission policies. However, the department would intervene where schools deliberately isolated certain pupils. In some cases, schools looked at the quality of the results. Mthethwa said schools also considered the issue of distance. He said in most cases, parents did not apply until it was too late. A solution was for parents to send their children to schools close to home because they had a better chance of admission there.  Mthethwa encouraged parents to approach their district offices to get placed instead of waiting until the first day of school. “We are going to make sure that each and every child is at school.” Denis Sookhalinghan, a spokesperson for the Social Civics Activist Association, said they were intervening in many cases in which schools were demanding fees upfront. Some schools in Chatsworth, Phoenix and Verulam were demanding 50% of fees upfront, which is illegal. “The school principals want to collect as much cash in school fees as possible. This is not affordable to parents who are unemployed and survive on social grants,” he said. Daily News