In three separate incidents, a house in Chatsworth and two informal settlements caught alight.  Flames engulfed 15 shacks in an informal settlement in Canelands, north of Durban.  Geoff Pullan, the DA councillor in ward 58, said the cause of the fire could have been 
illegal electricity connections. “The shacks are cheek-by-jowl, so the fire spreads quicker. They are also built with flammable material. A donor sent a bag of clothing from Gauteng by bus yesterday for the residents.  Their personal items like ID books, school books and cer­tificates were also destroyed in the blaze,” said Pullan, adding that no one was injured in the blaze.  Clean-up operations are under way in the Cato Crest informal settlement where 30 shacks situated alongside Vusi Mzimela (Bellair) Road were destroyed by fire. About 50 people were left homeless. Warren Burne, the DA councillor in ward 30, said the eThekwini disaster management department had visited the site and had a list of names of those affected.  Burne said two temporary structures were built on the site to cater for men and women in the interim.  “There are discussions to get a truck to clear the site and for Durban Solid Waste to remove the debris,” he added.  “Disaster management will look at supplying building material, but it could take a week. My current focus is to get them blankets, food parcels and the temporary structure ready,” Burne said.  The cause is unknown.  Garrith Jamieson, the spokesperson for Rescue Care paramedics, said one person suffered from minor smoke inhalation and was stabilised before being taken to hospital.  In Chatsworth Jay Naidu, his son and wife, lost most of their possessions when the house they were renting burnt down on Friday. Naidu and his son were in the garage on the property when they saw smoke coming from the roof.  “As a former fireman, even I couldn’t do anything to stop the fire spreading so rapidly. We watched as the flames destroyed our possessions. “It could have been caused by an electrical fault,” he added.  Daily News