This resulted in another adjournment, provisionally to January. Ally Jumar Abdullar, 39, is challenging the State’s cellphone evidence that linked him to Singh’s murder and placed him at her Musgrave home in a secure, multi-unit complex on February, 29, 2016. According to evidence in chief by Lieutenant-Colonel Marie Beetge of the SAPS Cyber Crime Unit based in Pretoria, in October, Abdullar had put his SIM card into Singh’s cellphone, which was taken, along with jewellery items, during the robbery. Read: Why I can't look my mom's killer in the eye Musgrave mom gagged and left to die Beetge’s investigation was able to link the accused to the murder, although they had all denied having ­plotted or been part of it. She was expected to have been cross-examined by the defence yesterday. Singh’s long-time domestic worker, Nonjabulo Mteki, 33, who was described by Singh’s family as someone who they treated as part of the family, and the alleged hitmen, Abdullar and Kennedy Amon Ngongi, 28, both from Tanzania, are facing charges of murder and robbery with aggravating circumstances. They have all pleaded not guilty, and have been in custody since their arrests more than a year ago. Singh, 57, a retired teacher, was found dead in her bedroom with duct tape around her face and hands and bound by plastic cable ties. Also: Intruders suffocate woman at gated complex A neighbour had allegedly seen two men in painters’ overalls outside her flat on the day of the incident. It is alleged that Mteki was in a relationship with one Kenny Osita Oriki, who ran a business selling precious stones, and who had heard through Mteki that her employer-owned several diamonds, gold items and foreign currencies. They allegedly planned to rob her. Singh’s younger son, Amil, a medical student in Mauritius, was in the country and had planned to attend the trial for the first time, to get a glimpse of the court case, but was too emotional to speak after the adjournment was granted. Ken Maharaj, Singh’s brother-in-law, said members of the family came to court yesterday hoping that the trial would resume but were disappointed by the adjournment. Daily News