The programme is an annual event where the mayor’s parlour together with ward councillors, ward committee members and volunteers bring joy to 60 000 pensioners across eThekwini’s 110 wards.  But this year’s parties have been marred by controversy after an unsuccessful food parcel bidding company, Blue Crane Projects, interdicted the municipality, citing allegations of unfair tender processes.  Nearly 500 people gathered at the Resmount School Hall in Reservoir Hills at 9am for their annual party, but nothing had been set up. Xolani Nala, DA councillor for Ward 23, said the service provider did not arrive with chairs and tables. He had to let the people into the venue when it started to rain.  Ruben Singh, 68, who had been waiting since 8.30am, said they had not been given tea or refreshments. “They gave us cups but there was no tea or cooldrinks. We gave them back the cups. There was one kettle available to boil water for 500 people,” he said.   The contents of the food parcel that they received included: assorted biscuits 200g, a can of baked beans, a litre of juice, tea bags 100s, 1.25kg mielie meal, sugar, rice 2kg, and 2kg chicken. The estimated total value of the grocery hamper was R207.  The Daily News asked pensioners if it was worth the wait. Many felt they were paying their rates and taxes and deserved something in return. Others felt that what was given free from the government should be taken with both hands.  By 2pm, lunch had still not been served and many pensioners left for home. Dillion Alexander, 68, claimed some people did not look older than 50 but had somehow been allowed into the venue.  “There is no happiness or joy here. It does not even feel like a senior citizens’ party. Some were scared to leave their seats and go to the toilet in case they were not let back in,” Alexander said.  Nala added: “There were no tables or plates. The city management has failed the senior citizens. This is embarrassing.”   Martin Xaba, head of the mayor’s parlour, told the 
executive committee last month that the tender for the hampers was advertised and a 
schedule of all tenderers was developed. Two of the tenderers with the lowest prices and who met all the specifications were visited to inspect their premises for storage space and cold rooms as well as their ability to deliver the hampers on 
time.  Tozi Mthethwa, eThekwini Municipality spokesperson, said they had asked their legal services department to look into the matter. Daily News