Although the mother pleaded guilty yesterday to charges of fraud, making a false statement and defeating the ends of justice, she would still have to go through a separate case in the Family Court for a decision on whether the child should be returned into her care. Tearful throughout the Durban Regional Court proceedings on Wednesday when her plea statement was read out to the court by her attorney, Mfanafuthi Biyela, the 34-year-old mother admitted she knew when she opened a missing person’s case that her child was fine. On March 10 this year, the woman and her husband opened a case of robbery with aggravating circumstances at Durban Central police station. She claimed she was hijacked by an armed man at City View shopping centre and that her baby girl was kidnapped during the robbery. She had told the police at the time that she only managed to pull her 8-year-old child out of her white Toyota Yaris and the hijacker sped off with the baby strapped in the back seat. A police search operation that involved various units such as the Search and Rescue unit, the K9 unit, Crime Intelligence, the KZN war room and Child Protection units were used. Prayed The search went viral on social media networks as the whole country prayed for the safe return of the baby. She and a 27-year-old man, who it later emerged was the child’s biological father, were arrested soon afterwards. They appeared separately in court yesterday because of the mother’s guilty plea. The man intends to plead not guilty and is expected back in court on January 23. Supported by her husband and three other relatives, she looked down as she admitted in the plea statement that she made a false report. “I indicated that my motor vehicle was hijacked from me and made a statement that the assailant also kidnapped the child who was in the vehicle during the robbery. I admit that when making the false report (I knew) that the police would act and conduct a search,”she said. Speaking outside court, Biyela said the mother had been seeing the baby, but declined to provide further details on the matter involving the minor child. Asked if the mother was missing the child, he said; “Every mother would be hurt and unhappy to be separated from her child. It has been a difficult ordeal for her and she is taking it badly. This whole situation has taken its toll on her and her family,” said Biyela. He said the next next step would be the compilation of a probation officer’s report and a pre-sentence report. Biyela said he would ask the court for a non-custodial sentence when the mother returned to court on January 22. Daily News