Chiliza’s fiancée, Thandi Mthembu, described the victim as a  hard worker and a loving father during arguments for sentencing.  The couple had two children together, a 10-year-old boy and 7-year-old girl, and had recently moved to the eFolweni area. This was where Chiliza had bought a piece of land and built a two-bedroomed house for temporary accommodation until they were able to buy a home.  She said their son still had nightmares. He had heard the gunshots when his father was fatally shot for his service pistol. “He was killed close to our home. Every day we are reminded of his death as we have to walk past the spot where he lay dead,” she said. “Life has been extremely difficult without him. I was left to raise the children on my own. I do not feel safe in my own home, but I cannot afford to move house,” she said. Minenhle Ngidi, 23, was on Thursday found guilty of firing the shot that killed Chiliza. He was also convicted on charges of robbery with aggravating circumstances, possession of a prohibited firearm and illegal possession of ammunition. His uncle, Mfanafuthi Ngidi, 29, was found guilty of robbery with aggravating circumstances and sentenced to 15 years in jail. Judge Esther Steyn found that the State had proven the charges against Minenhle beyond a reasonable doubt.  She said that although it was proven that Mfanafuthi had not murdered Chiliza, he had associated himself with the robbery. Judge Steyn said they both had not shown remorse for their actions and had pleaded not guilty until the end. “People like you are a danger and should be removed from society. The fact that you’re both young should not be given any prominence by this court.” The killing of police officers was prevalent and society demanded protection, she said.   Accomplice Evidence by Sbonelo Makhanya, an accomplice who had turned State witness, was that he, Minenhle and Mfanafuthi agreed they would rob people to make money. They planned to rob Chiliza of his gun and approached him while he was busy on his cellphone. Minenhle fired two shots at Chiliza before he could defend himself. Makhanya ran away from the scene when he saw Chiliza lying on the ground with gunshot wounds. Police had acted on a tip-off from an informer who said the robbers were boasting about killing a police officer and showing off his service pistol. Makhanya and Mfanafuthi were arrested a few weeks later, while Minenhle was arrested at the homestead of a traditional healer and found in possession of Chiliza’s firearm. He was looking for muti to make him invisible. Defence attorney Sizwe Masondo pleaded with the court to consider the men’s circumstances, but admitted that nothing much could be argued on the murder conviction.  Senior State advocate Wendy Greeff had asked the court to impose a life sentence for the murder conviction against Minenhle and 15 years for Mfanafuthi on the charge of robbery, arguing that it would be justice served for a young family devastated by crime. Minenhle’s 35 years’ imprisonment would run concurrently with his life sentence. Daily News