Basic Education Director-General Mathanzima Mweli visited marking centres in Ilembe, Umgungundlovu, and Pinetown District and held briefings for markers at Haythorne High School, Pietermaritzburg Girls’ High School and Glenwood High School in Durban at the weekend. He was escorted by officials from Umalusi, the quality assurance authority, and the head of the Department of Education Vusumuzi Nzama. Education Department spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa was confident that the marking of scripts would continue to run smoothly. He said the province was using a winning marking system that they had used 
for years. “We have a schedule process that is secure. We have experienced markers who are also teaching the subjects they are marking,” he said. The marking process is expected to be concluded by December 15. The department had made sure that the marking centres had tight security and that they were a good working environment for markers. Thirona Moodley, of the National Professional Teachers Organisation of South Africa, said marking was going smoothly, except for a report they had received about a female marker who was made to share accommodation with a man at a centre in Eshowe. Moodley said there were no serious problems this year compared with last year, when the union had received  complaints about accommodation. “I think the department learnt from last year’s problems. The department conducted investigations into the previous years' issues and it looks like they dealt with them,” Moodley said. Sadtu deputy secretary Nomarashiya Caluza said so far marking had been smooth. “We have been monitoring the marking process. In the previous years we had problems of centres that were without water, electricity and beds. We did not receive such reports this year and we hope that  the department has learnt from previous mistakes,” she said. Marking began on December3 at 27 marking centres. Each marking centre has a centre manager who is responsible for making sure that marking in conducted without problems. There were two selection processes for markers. The first one was conducted by Umalusi to confirm that the selection process was complied with. The second one was done by the Department of Basic Education. Daily News