Cosatu’s second deputy president, Zingiswa Losi, called on Ramaphosa’s supporters in the province not to swayed from supporting the deputy president. Losi is tipped to be deputy secretary-general on Rama­phosa’s slate. She was speaking at an ANC Women’s League eThekwini send-off prayer for Ramaphosa supporters attending the party’s  54th elective conference, where the party is set to elect new leaders. “The thieves said they will take 600 branches, but you said 193 is ours. We also know that in the 433 branches they took, some belong to us. “In KZN people die; you have to be tactical and strategic about how you will go to the conference undetected, because you cannot make it to Nasrec if you raise your hand and nominate Cyril,” Losi said. She was referring to the number of ANC branches that threw their weight behind former AU Commission chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma (433), versus those of her rival Ramaphosa (193), a positive result in what was believed to be a Dlamini Zuma stronghold. She told delegates not to be swayed at the conference and to remember the mandate their branches sent them to fulfil. “Incorruptible Ramaphosa and Senzo Mchunu (tipped to be secretary-general in the same slate) are leaders who should emerge at the conference, to carry the party to the 2019 ­general elections and beyond,” she said. Losi said that in order to inspire investor confidence in the country and fight unemployment, a Ramphosa government would “deal” with corruption. “We hear there are ‘smallanyana’ skeletons in the cupboard; we want leaders who will open that cupboard, expose the skeleton and its owners. “The problem with these skeletons is that they are dangerous, chasing away investors, causing the country to be downgraded and services to not reach the people,”she said. She was disheartened by the ANC being synonymous with corruption, and pleaded with delegates to vote for Ramaphosa. “Tambo must be shaking in his grave. When you tune into  the news, the first thing you hear about is ANC corruption. Money being taken to Dubai.” Losi also took a swipe at those who labelled Ramaphosa a capitalist, saying he was a capitalist product of the Black Economic Empowerment  ANC policy.