This festive season is spirited and it's all about elegant décor settings with a hint of magic. Soft blush pinks and neutrals are being enlivened with glistening metallic in a yuletide scenario which is embracing the Scandinavian ‘Lagom’ trend embodied by the phrase ‘less is more’. “The focus is on a Christmas setting that encourages social interaction and as sense of togetherness rather than personal introspection,” explained Anita Bloom, Creative Director: Lifestyle, Design and Retail Portfolio for Decorex SA. “There is no need for garish, over-the-top table settings but rather keep it simple and let the nuanced Christmas tones work their way through classier finishings.” 1. Fresh foliage There is no need to overspend this Christmas season, particularly when it comes to table décor, as some of the best decorative touches can be found in and around the home. To breathe life into that table setting, simply cut some green branches from the garden and either place them at place settings, craft them into home-made Christmas wreaths or simply scatter some leaves across the table. 2. Paper place mats A lovely decorative option that will bring through the Christmas motif without breaking the bank is the option of paper place mats which can be discarded once the feast is finished. There are some great festive mats at aLoveSupreme, available in a range of vibrant styles and colours. 3. Globes and lights Add a hint of northern hemisphere festivity to the table with a traditional snow globe, available from @home, and complete that cosy Christmas feeling with a range of their stunning blush gold and white decorative candles. 4. Gold touches Christmas is a truly magical time and this mystical sense of mirth can be cleverly incorporated into the festive décor in the form of matte gold touches. Complement the neutral blush tones with matte gold cutlery or gently gold-dipped wine glasses, all available from @home. 5. Bauble place names Nothing says Christmas quite like traditional Christmas decorations so, rather than investing in once-off décor items, go through the Christmas box and select some vintage baubles for the Christmas table. Another great yuletide touch is using baubles as place names rather than cards – this can be achieved by either writing or painting names on the baubles or inserting a name into a clear bauble decoration. This makes a lovely take-home gift as well. Celebrate your #rhythmoflife this festive season with some of these sparkling ideas and start 2018 afresh with the best décor, design and lifestyle trends by visiting Decorex SA. Visit: www.decorex.co.za Facebook: Decorex SA Twitter: @decorexSA Instagram: @decorex_sa LinkedIn: Decorex SA Pinterest: Decorex SA Blog: http://www.reedexpoafrica.co.za/decorexblog/