The exhibition was officially opened on Friday, December 1 - World Aids Day - and it’s the first time Muholi has hosted a solo exhibition in KZN. In fact, she’s staging her biggest exhibition in her home city, and showing it for the first time in her career in Durban. The exhibition presents evolutions in the artist’s ongoing photographic projects, affirming Muholi’s commitment to activism through visual history. It adds interactive and educational elements, as well as an activism wall that shares experiences from the lives of the Brave Beauties - trans-women and gender non-binary individuals. It also invites the public to engage with the alternating brutality and joy faced by the local black LGBT community. The exhibition features five different bodies of work, namely Faces and Phases; Somnyama Ngonyama; Love and Loss; Mourning and Brave Beauties - cumulatively telling different stories. It will occupy a large portion of the entire gallery space within the Durban City Hall. “I don’t want to always present tragedy from South Africa. I want to show things that are joyous, that make a person who might have thought of the jungle think of something else,” Muholi told Vogue in a recent interview. Muholi is a visual activist. She was born in 1972 in uMlazi, Durban, but currently lives in Joburg. She co-founded the Forum for Empowerment of Women (Few) in 2002, and in 2009 founded Inkanyiso, a forum for queer and visual/activist media. Muholi’s self-proclaimed mission is “to re-write a black queer and trans-visual history of South Africa for the world to know of our resistance and existence at the height of hate crimes in this country and beyond”. She continues to train and co-facilitates photography workshops for young women in the townships. Muholi has won numerous awards - most recently from the French government when they bestowed on her the “Knight in the Order of Arts and Letters” as recognition of her ongoing engagement and creativity in helping to develop the arts and literature in France and abroad. Her Faces and Phases series has shown at Documenta 13, the South African pavilion at the 55th Venice Biennale and the 29th São Paulo Biennial. Solo exhibitions have taken place at institutions including the Mead Art Museum, Amherst; Gallatin Galleries, New York; Open Eye Gallery, Liverpool; Brooklyn Museum, New York; Akershus Kunstsenter, Norway; EinsteinHaus, Ulm; Schwules Museum, Berlin; Williams College Museum of Art. On Monday, Professor Zanele Muholi and Professor Hlonipha Mokoena led a discussion in the Durban Art Gallery to reflect on how we can emphasise the activism element within the 16 Days campaign. Daily News