Former AU chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma and deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa are the two front runners in the race for ANC president in a field that has seven candidates, including former KwaZulu-Natal premier Zweli Mkhize and Human Settlements Minister Lindiwe Sisulu. Ashwin Trikamjee, president of the SA Hindu Maha Sabha, said: “My advice to every delegate is that they should realise they carry the hopes and aspirations of over 50million people.” Trikamjee said the delegates should vote for a candidate who would be accessible to the people and would steer the country in a positive direction. The Muslim Judicial Council of South Africa said it wished all the delegates the best. “We remind the delegation in attendance that they should cast their vote decisively without fear or favour and for the best person possible, who will lead a united and stable ANC free of factionalism fuelled by self-serving interests,” said Mishka Davies, the council’s spokesperson. She added the council wanted the delegation to choose a leader who would put God first. “Because when God is placed first in all our decisions, the results will be successful,” she said. Retired Anglican Bishop Rubin Phillip said that “in whatever they do or say in the decisions they make, they should put the country first”. “This is absolutely important as the number of people who are poor is growing, especially black people. For the poor, the benefits of democracy have not filtered down in terms of getting their basic needs met,” he said. Phillip said this was very important because South Africa was a seriously divided society and needed healing. In a statement, Wendy Kahn, the national director of the South African Board of Jewish Deputies, said she hoped the deliberations at the conference were in the best interests of the people of South Africa. Dr Thami Ngcana, a bishop of the Council Of African Independent Churches, said delegates at the conference should bear in mind the tradition of the ANC that the deputy president became the head of the party. Ngcana said this tradition “almost went sour” at the 2007 Polokwane conference. “Not following this tradition led to a group splintering and going to form the Congress of the People party. If the tradition is not maintained, this could lead to long-lasting disunity within the party,” he said. Ram Maharaj, president of the SA Hindu Dharma Sabha, said all delegates should ensure the conference should be a fair and dignified one. Maharaj also encouraged people to put South Africa first so the country could enjoy peace and prosperity that would improve the quality of life for all citizens. “ANC members must stand together and be loyal to whoever wins the election,” he said. Archbishop William Slattery, the Southern African Catholic Bishops’ Conference spokesperson, said the conference should start with a prayer which delegates should take seriously. “Our people have suffered too much from serious government maladministration,” he said. Slattery said the delegates should vote according to their conscience and not with a view to lining their pockets to gain political advantage. Daily News