“People are a bit surprised that a vegetarian has opened this sort of restaurant,” she laughed. “However, I have relied on my friends and family - those who eat meat - to give me feedback.”  Naidoo has a string of other businesses, from import and export of anti-ageing supplements to beauty clinics, her latest being in Chatsworth. She featured in the TV reality show Divas of Jozi, and it was during filming that she visited two shisa nyama restaurants. “Neither of them catered for vegetarians and I thought at the time that if I ever opened a shisa nyama restaurant, I would make sure there was something on the menu for vegetarians.” Soon after her recent high society 40th birthday bash, she got down to designing her restaurant, called 4320 Shisa Nyama after the uMhlanga post code, in the prime corner site at the Umhlanga Centre in Ridge Road. Naidoo “had a blast” designing the restaurant and the furniture. Being the socialite she is, there is even a plush red velvet door complete with “diamonties” and, of course, a fabulous chandelier. She recruited an executive chef, Cyprian Khumalo, and food and beverage manager Cleverance Simamane, who is a cocktail fundi, and is providing jobs for 24 people. And she did everything in two-and-a-half weeks. Explaining what a “full-on” shisa nyama restaurant was, she explained that it did not sell meals like pizzas. Although she was still learning the restaurant business, she said, she did have hotel and hospitality experience and knew all about costing and service delivery. “Although the service is five-star, the meals are affordable,” she said.  “It is shisa nyama, but with a twist and a little bit of decadence. People can come in their shorts and flops if they like.” Chef Khumalo said the food was traditional but “at another level”. There were separate grills for the meat: one for beef and another for lamb and chicken. Naidoo said she had already been asked to franchise a similar restaurant in Joburg, but insisted it was too soon to think about that. However, there was talk of one in Ballito. Although married to billionaire businessman Vivian Reddy, Naidoo is financing her new business herself. “Viv loves our craft beer, but I have told him I will have to open up a tab for him as I have a loan to pay off,” she grinned. Daily News