Speaking to the Daily News, Pillay, 82, said he was elated by the moment. “I was invited to the Shri Emperumal Temple in Mount Edgecombe, where the announcement was made. I was shocked, but thrilled that my motherland saw it fit to honour me,” he said. Pillay said at his age, he had had many enjoyable life experiences. “I am one of those full of beans journalists who go out on a story no matter where or when. I started my career in the fifties. My break with a byline story came in the Golden City Post, in 1957,” he said. Pillay said there were at least three major articles that stood out in his career. “The first was where a three-month-old baby woke her parents up when she started screaming. When the parents woke up, they realised that their room was burning after a candle had fallen and set the curtains alight. That baby is now a grandmother. “Another one that sticks out for me is where a woman in Dalton claimed her husband was missing. After a few days, a horrible stench emanated from the woman’s house. “Investigations revealed that she had chopped up her husband into pieces and had started boiling pieces every day. She was sentenced for the ­murder,” he said. Pillay said the third news story that also stood out for him was where a woman strangled her husband to death, leaving their young children fatherless. “I took a photograph of the seven-year-old boy carrying his three-year-old sister. It was a sad picture and it was the first time that Golden City Post decided to use a photograph on a poster,” he said. Although Pillay has had his fair share of great experiences, he believed he was one of a few people living today who attended the All in Africa Conference in 1961, when Nelson Mandela made his historic speech at Mamaye Hall in Plessislaer, with 1400 delegates present. “In 1999, when Madiba received the Freedom of Pieter­maritzburg, I was invited to share the experience on that historic night with the president himself,” Pillay said. Comparing the challenges experienced during his career to modern-day journalists, Pillay said journalists were not as free. “During apartheid, things were pretty tough. We had to ­attend a police crime conference. Unlike today, you can do your own thing. They were tough back then,” he said. Pillay wrote columns for newspapers. Today, he is a freelance photographer for many newspapers, both daily and weekly titles. Daily News