Dr Sherwin Ramghulam, 31, carried out a triple bypass on a beating heart without putting the patient on the usual heart-lung machine to take over the heart’s function. He explained that he did the bypass using two arteries within the patient’s chest and another from his hand instead of using the blood vessels from the leg veins as usual to repair the patient’s damaged heart arteries. The landmark surgery at one of South Africa’s biggest government training hospitals was carried out in the same week that the country marked the 50th anniversary of the first human heart transplant, performed by a medical team lead by Dr Christiaan Barnard. Ramghulam, a consultant in the hospital’s department of cardiothoracic surgery, carried out the operation on 55-year-old Mbuyiselwa Magubane of Ndwedwe within two weeks of returning from a centre of excellence in Kerala, India, where he had trained and performed the procedure. Dr Murali Vettath, head of the Kerala centre of excellence, said that while other foreign surgeons had also studied the surgery, there had never been anyone “brilliant enough” to perform it back in their home country as quickly as Ramghulam. Ramghulam, who has also studied minimal invasive thoracic surgery in China, will carry out a second similar procedure on a patient at the hospital on Tuesday. The hospital is the only public hospital in KZN undertaking cardiac surgery and carries out between 500-600 such surgeries a year. Dr Rajhmun Madansein, the head of the hospital’s cardiothoracic surgery department, said that about 50% of those cases were coronary artery surgeries. “Cardiac surgery is expensive; the Health Department is facing budgetary constraints and undertaking the surgery without using the heart-lung machine, without compromising patient safety nor full revascularisation, goes a long way towards cutting costs,” he said, pointing out that the care at the hospital was comparable to the best in the world. Ramghulam said the procedure would now be the norm for him and he would be training other colleagues. “It was a big achievement for us. And with some six to eight similar surgeries carried out at the hospital every week, this operation will save the government a considerable amount of money and that is a great advantage. “There are a lot of complications using the heart-lung machine which don’t arise with the superior technique of beating-heart surgery, and the usage of only arterial conduits improves long term outcome for the patient. “It is a technically demanding procedure as it has to be carried out while the heart is beating and bleeding. “But it is the least invasive surgical approach for the patient. The patient’s stay in the intensive care unit was also shorter, freeing up a much-needed bed in a state hospital.” Daily News