This was revealed by Tozi Mthethwa, the municipality’s communications head. Mthethwa said the city had so far managed to recoup R57.4 million in the past financial year. Until June 30, the biggest traffic infringements were illegal parking, which resulted in 346 748 fines being issued. In second place was speeding, with 298 304 fines issued, and in third place were unlicensed motor vehicles at 91 179. Metro police Senior Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad said the top offender was a truck owner who had received 462 fines for various offences, including parking and speeding, amounting to R502 600.  He said an offender who topped the list of taxi owners received 962fines, for various offences, amounting to R305200. Sewpersad said the issuing of fines was consistent throughout the year, but there were “spikes” during periods like the Easter and December holidays.  He said about 239 officers were stationed around the city at present.  The challenge they faced was not being taken seriously by motorists. Sewpersad said the public failed to realise officers were trained professionals. This attitude often led to aggression by motorists and assault against police officers, he said.  “One of the strangest things motorists do is deny they have committed an offence even when there is camera proof. All this does is just put the onus on the motorists to prove their case in court,” he said. Heinz de Boer, a DA councillor who sits on the city’s executive committee (Exco), said this was a common problem. “It is quite alarming. It is a symptom of lawlessness in the city.” He said the matter of fines also did not only apply to motorists, but to building owners as well.  The Daily News reported that the city had identified about 95 buildings in poor condition. De Boer said the problem was that people flouted the law, not caring about consequences. “The only way we are going to curb this is for people to get locked up,” he said.  Mthunzi Gumede, eThekwini mayor Zandile Gumede’s spokesperson, said motorists not paying fines affected the municipality’s resources.  “This is something that affects everyone,” Gumede said. De Boer also pointed out that the municipality had proposed trying to get a R1billion loan for “capital projects”.  The proposal was made earlier this year, and advertised in various newspapers. Nedbank, Absa and Development Bank of Southern Africa were among the institutions that submitted proposals for the long-term loan. Howard Dembovsky, Justice Project South Africa’s chairperson, felt the blame for fines not being paid lay with the municipality for not following the law.  He added this was not just an eThekwini phenomenon, but a countrywide one. “There are a number of reasons people do not pay their fines. The main one is because negative consequences for not paying fines are non-existent,” Dembovsky said. He said 90% of fines were sent through the post office which was a very inefficient way of delivering them. Motorists would often open the envelope and throw them away.  “There are sufficient laws to force motorists to pay their fines, but these are not being enforced.  “If the laws were being implemented then people would have no choice but to pay, unless they want to receive summonses to go to court. With the way things stand, the average motorist obviously sees non-payment as the smart thing to do,” he said. According to Sewpersad, metro police have planned ways to get motorists to pay up. One is through setting up roving and static roadblocks. Another is to check for the top 100 or 200 offenders on their computer system and go to their homes and premises to tell them to pay their fines. Metro officers are “heavily under-resourced”, he said. As a result, they were embarking on a massive recruitment drive to add 800 officers to their team by 2019. They were also plans to reintroduce a “bobby on the beat” who would be able to see crime trends and deal with by-laws being flouted. Daily News