Durban - Another motorist has become a victim of a smash and grab at the intersection of Jan Smuts and Bellair roads. In the last three weeks, the Daily News have reported on incidents where women were targeted in smash and grabs at the intersection. In one of the cases, a woman was advised to go along to the bushes near the intersection where the robbers  to discard of the bags once they have sifted through it for valuables. The woman, who declined to be named, told her husband about the advise and the next day he went to the bush where he found his wife's bag with all her personal documentation intact. Ivan Govender, Fidelity ADT Security’s district manager, said awareness of one’s surroundings is a valuable first step in preventing ‘smash-and-grabs’ from happening to you while driving. How to avoid a smash and grab. Graphic: Thobeka Ngema “Criminals are always looking for opportunities to strike. You can make a big difference in preventing this from happening by just being alert to events around you and by trusting your instincts,” he said. Govender warned driver to never leave valuable items on the passenger seat. He further warned motorists to avoid distractions while driving. Ten tips to avoid being a smash and grab victim ·         Don’t have bags, cellular phones, briefcases or other valuables visible inside the vehicle – valuables only attract thieves who may break your car window. 
·         Lock all your doors and close the windows when driving. ·         Never open vehicle windows or doors for strangers. ·         Avoid opening your windows or getting involved in discussions with street vendors or anyone handing out flyers.
·         Be constantly on the lookout for suspicious activity and trust your instinct. ·         Always be conscious of your surroundings and remain alerted when coming to an intersection or stopping your vehicle.
·         Be wary of people standing at intersections – they may be innocent but perpetrators mix with these people while waiting for an opportunity to pounce. ·         If you encounter obstacles such as rocks or tyres do not get out of your vehicle to remove them. Reverse and drive off in the opposite direction.
·         If it’s late at night, slow down well in advance so that the light changes green by the time you reach the intersection.
·         Leave a gap between you and the car in front of you to give you room to escape if anything should happen. Daily News