Durban - In March 2008, Jess Foord and her father, Tim, went to the Shongweni Dam, to walk their dogs. They were approached by four men who assaulted Tim and forced him to watch them rape his daughter.
That was the turning point in Foord’s life and she came up with the Jess Foord Foundation (JFF), an organisation aimed at helping rape survivors. “I formed the foundation to help restore lives after rape and turn rape victims into rape survivors. I want to educate people and help them realise there is life after rape,” Foord said. JFF, based in Kloof, offers rape counselling, motivational talks to groups and young men to help them become better role models and learn about how to treat girls and women and various other projects, aimed at empowering rape survivors. Through its Community Centre Project, JFF offers counselling services for those in Mariannridge and surrounding communities. “The needs we have identified that we will be meeting are trauma counselling, rape counselling, drug/alcohol addiction counselling, child play therapy for behavioural or emotional problems, HIV/Aids testing and counselling, as well as life skills courses that work hand in hand with work experience and possible job placement,” Foord said. JFF also runs the Handbag Project, where new or used handbags are donated, containing items that can assist a rape victim during the initial reporting process at the police station, items such as a facecloth, soap, deodorant spray and new underwear. “Typically, any item of clothing with forensic evidence on it must be taken from the rape victim, at a time when she already feels so vulnerable. She then must undergo physical examination before being allowed to shower. A handbag with ‘comfort’ items in it can go a long way in helping the victim feel a little better. “The most important item in the bag, however, is a letter with a few words of encouragement to restore some hope to the victim during this traumatic time. When you are at your lowest, just receiving the bag with all the goodies is a simple gift that can give you hope, which is a fundamental step in recovery,” Foord said. Another project started by the JFF, is the Cinderella Project, which collects second-hand formal gowns in good condition for donation to boys and girls at underprivileged schools for their matric dances. Items can include matric dance dresses, bridesmaids outfits and evening gowns so that girls in underprivileged areas can be given the chance to wear a beautiful dress to their matric ball and feel like the princesses they are. “Our trauma counsellor and project manager visit these schools preceding the donation and deliver workshops which educate our girls and boys about rape and the support individuals can receive from the foundation,” Foord said. The Jess Foord Foundation relies on donations from companies and individuals with the desire to bring hope to people going through the aftermath of rape. The JFF can be contacted on 0861 333 449. Daily News