Jackie Branfield, the founder of Bobbi Bear, said she started working with children in 1994 and named the organisation Bobbi Bear after her friend who she said had an “amazing” childhood, while she had a difficult one. “I am a product of childhood rape as well. I wanted to help and in order to help, you’ve got to heal yourself and I was very fortunate to have been looked after by black women when I was vulnerable,” said Branfield. She said a lot of children had Aids in 1994, so she started a little democracy development for women under a tree and then started to speak to the children but because she is Zimbabwean, she could not speak isiZulu, and her isiNdebele was not up to scratch. “So I ran into a little toy shop and drew the type of bear I wanted on the table. Somebody had given me R2000 to buy presents for the children I just put it on the desk and said give me R2000 worth of these bears and that’s how it started. So the children literally just draw on the bear what happened,” said Branfield. She said that with the use of the bear, the organisation could help “to bring justice and healing to every child who comes through our doors and to prevent, in any way we can, further sexual abuse of children.” Branfield said that within 20 minutes, her team should be able to establish whether the child was penetrated and, if so, when. If it happened within 72 hours, the child was taken to hospital for post-exposure prophylactics. “It was Bobbi Bear alongside other activists who lobbied for the post-exposure prophylaxis to be put into our protocols. It is a massive dose of ARVs. If given to the child within 72 hours, it can cut your infection rate by 80% and when you think of our statistics on rape, that is a lot of children at risk we’ve been party with a lot of activists and government officials to change the law for children,” said Branfield. “Bobbi Bear is also a point-of-rescue operation and does an after-care of the victim when he/she has been through courts.” “It all goes down on the bear,” said Branfield. “All the information we need is on there, child’s name, everything. We also have a rape bag. In the rape bag you’ve got gloves, a plaster. A plaster will go over the little mouth, that can mean he said he’d kill her if she spoke or harm her parents. It could mean he put a penis in the mouth “A lot of children sort of do something on the ears, for example if the perpetrator said, ‘listen to me or else you die’. Round about the knee part, children indicate that they are sore there.” Branfield does not believe that if one is sexually abused as a child, one necessarily becomes an abuser. Her hope is that South African parents become the mother or the father they wished they’d had. She also said that if you knew or suspected abuse, to phone Bobbi Bear . “We are applying for funding to go and train communities, and being a Zimbabwean, I want to take Bobbi Bear home; that’s my life’s dream. I want to give back to those black women who looked after me,” said Branfield.  Call Bobbi Bear at 0727080095 or 072 443 2525