The R35 billion project is set to maximise the use of the area by a network of vehicular and pedestrian connectivity, including the extension of the beachfront promenade along Vetch’s Pier around to the northern harbour edge, populating the space in between with multistorey structures offering residential, office, retail and leisure infrastructure. Phillip Sithole, the acting deputy city manager for economic development and planning, told the Daily News after the city’s executive committee (Exco) meeting on Tuesday that there had been some reluctance by investors when they passed through Mahatma Gandhi Road. This was because of the “rotten” state of the area. The road led to the heart of the Point development and all the “dodgy, ugly” buildings and suspicious movements by inhabitants were a concern to the investors, Sithole said. “We are facing a problem with these buildings and too many illegal squatters. We understand that some of the buildings are not well managed and the entire area itself is poorly managed. “We have had investors getting scared once they see the entry point to the Point development, but come next year we will deal with all the concerns. We will deal with this crime and grime in this area,” Sithole said. A contractor has been appointed and is expected to be on site next year. Sithole said the city’s Radical Economic Transformation Framework would be implemented to ensure that previously disadvantaged businesses would receive 30% of the work. The total investment value is estimated to be between R30bn and R35bn with annual rates of R200million. About 11000 construction jobs would be created along with 6750 permanent jobs. “We are getting extra capacity to deal with these challenges and by the beginning of next year it’s going to be all systems go. “A budget exists for these challenges and we are partnering with civic organisations including the South African Property Owners’ Association and the Durban Chamber of Commerce. We’ve had meetings with the association and we will be holding another one next week,” Sithole said. Part He said a part of the resources in place to get the project going was a legal team to deal with urban renewal in the area, in case there were interdicts by those who refused to comply with the rules when clearing up the area for the development. The city wanted to see more people living in the inner city, but that should be done in an orderly fashion, he said. “The buildings clean-up programme will be enforced and we have people who are capacitated to handle clean-up operations. We will ensure the success of investments in Durban, and a number of projects are already under way. There is investment taking place here and the total of the catalytic projects in the city over the next 15 years totals R900bn,” he said. During the Exco meeting, DA leader Zwakele Mncwango’s attempt to dampen the mood did not succeed. He pointed out that the current projects were the legacy of the previous team and that there was nothing new brought by the current leadership. However, mayor Zandile Gumede reminded Mncwango that the achievements of the city were the work of a collective, and that the current leadership could claim victory for past successes as much as the next leadership would claim victory for past successes. Daily News