Isabel van der Westhuizen, Metrorail KZN communication manager, said they were aware of yesterday’s fire.  “Passenger Rail Agency of SA (Prasa) has to resort to chasing these people out of the operational area, and when we do so, we are often faced with unhealthy situations. The only way to rid our environment of these threats to crew and commuters, and our maintenance staff, is to burn it,” she said.  Van der Westhuizen said there was a regular influx of vagrants who trespassed along the railway line and posed a threat to train crews and commuters. “This is especially when trains have to wait for a signal, or have stopped as a result of a fault,” she said.  According to Van der Westhuizen, these operations were conducted in association with local police and security companies contracted to Prasa.  “These vagr ants originally located themselves in the Albert Park vicinity, but since being chased from there they have attempted to find refuge in the rail reserve. There is also a large amount of litter deposited on the railway line from the roads above by hawkers and those using the taxi ranks. It is also common to set fire to the litter too,” she said. One of the people living along the railway lines claimed that fires were started regularly, in a bid to get them to move elsewhere. Siphiwe Mkhize, who has been living in the area for two months, said he woke up to see men dressed in uniform lighting fires along the railway lines. “They come every few weeks and do this. They set these fires and hope that they can chase us away,” he said.  Another man, Sanele Njilo, has been living on the lines for three years. He said he and his girlfriend previously lived in Albert Park.  “There are a group of security guards who are targeting us. Sometimes they come and light these fires, damaging our belongings. Other times, they come when we are not here and assault the women here,” he claimed.  “They chase them away. We have done nothing wrong to them. These lines are not even used. They must just leave us here,” he said.  A woman, who was packing her items, claimed she had been physically attacked by guards. She said she burnt her finger while trying to salvage clothing during a recent fire.  Tozi Mthethwa, eThekwini Municipality spokesperson, said the fire was not part of a clean-up campaign undertaken by mayor Zandile Gumede.  Daily News