One of the quarterly audit reports for the third quarter of 2016/17 and tabled at the council’s executive committee (Exco) meeting recently highlighted issues affecting the migration of accounts from the COINS system to the  revenue management system (RMS). It  also assessed whether the RMS project was ready to be closed off. Among the concerns identified was that the manual intervention in the system (RMS) resulted in delays, and in some incidents the readings had been corrupted and had to be deleted. The affected connections had to have estimated readings charged. The merging process was problematic, with some connections being removed from the download file, so the download could proceed. Last month, the Daily News reported that ratepayers were receiving inconsistent and inflated municipal bills for electricity and water usage, thanks to the malfunctioning system. According to the audit report, the meter reading audit processing was slower than the COINS system, because the screen used did not provide all the information required to audit the readings. Staff “The audit staff needed to access more than one screen to process a single reading. The additional workload requires the audit staff to work overtime each day to keep up with the volume to be processed to ensure estimated charges are minimised,” the report read. “Not all business rule data handling scenarios relating to the COINS system may have been identified during the mapping process, resulting in a number of errors picked up post migration.” Correcting certain accounts that were migrated had proven a challenge. It has taken longer than anticipated because of issues related to account classification by business, and understanding the financial impact in production, according to the report. At the core of data defects are property/service addresses, deposits and incorrect account types. The report stated that RMS was still a “very high risk” project, but with the required level of transparency and commitment from all stakeholders, the system could be delivered fit for use. In August, mayor Zandile Gumede said the city was appointing an independent person or body to look into the system after complaints by ratepayers. At the time, her spokesperson, Mthunzi Gumede, had said the mayor needed a report from the investigators within two months. At the recent Exco meeting, the mayor stopped the DA in its tracks when party councillors tried to poke holes in the report. “I’m still waiting for the report from the team which was set up by myself to investigate the system. I initiated this, and not you, so let’s wait until we get the report,” Gumede said. Daily News