Durban - After early three days of rainfall, the Mgeni system did not benefit much, while Albert Falls Dam, Umgeni Water’s largest dam, remains a concern. Yesterday, SA Weather Service forecaster Aslam Sardiwalla said the weather system which had resulted in the rainfall had passed. Shami Harichunder, corporate stakeholder manager at Umgeni Water, said in spring (September to November), Albert Falls Dam received only 234mm of rainfall. He said this was 33mm less than received at the same time last year. He said this week’s rain mainly fell along the coast between Ballito and Umzinto. Parts of the South Coast had already exceeded their yearly average by about 200mm. eManzimtoti, Scottburgh, Pennington and Umzinto have received more rainfall this year than in 2016. Harichunder also said that other Umgeni Water systems - Hazelmere, South Coast and Ixopo - had improved significantly in the past week. “This means at the current levels of Hazelmere, Umzinto, EJ Smith, Nungwane and Home Farm dams, there are adequate water resources to meet the full demand of consumers. “Hazelmere supplies Verulam, Waterloo, La Mercy, Sea Tides, Ballito, Umhlali and parts of Ndwedwe. Umzinto, Nungwane and EJ Smith supply the entire middle South Coast region. Home Farm supplies Ixopo and surrounding villages,” Harichunder said. “The combined resources in the Mgeni system are currently at 50%. This is insufficient to meet the full demand of the three municipalities. A minimum of 75% is required to meet the full needs - meaning unrestricted supply and use of water. “Umgeni Water has reduced potable water production by 15% and municipalities are also applying restrictions of 15%. These measures were implemented to ensure that the water lasts until dams begin filling again.” The Mgeni system joint operations committee had reiterated the need for water conservation to continue, even during the festive season. “The committee noted, after reports were presented, that the Mgeni system - Mearns, Spring Grove, Midmar, Albert Falls, Nagle and Inanda dams - did not benefit in any meaningful way from this week’s rains. “The exceptions were Midmar and Nagle with marginal increase levels of 1% percent and 2.5%. The level of Midmar was at 77%, and Nagle at 78%,” explained Harichunder. The level of Albert Falls Dam was at 19.65% yesterday, the lowest in 22 years. “The level of this dam is reducing at a rate of 1% a month. Below-average rainfall in Albert Falls’ catchments has been prevalent for at least four years, resulting in this dam first remaining consistently at below 50%, later below 40%, followed by below 30% and then in 2017, at 20%, and now 19.65%.” “In the worst-case scenario, meaning if a period of no rainfall sets in and no water transfer from Midmar Dam takes place, Albert Falls will reach dead storage in 20 months.” Albert Falls Dam is the largest dam in the Mgeni system. It supplements the resources of Nagle Dam, which then supplies Durban Heights Waterworks in Reservoir Hills for redistribution to parts of Durban. However, insufficient resources in Albert Falls Dam have resulted in water from Inanda Dam being pumped to Durban Heights at a cost of millions per month. “Yesterday, the level of Inanda Dam was at 61%. A significant increase in the level of Albert Falls will occur if there is heavy downpour or above-average rainfall for at least three days or releases are made from Midmar Dam,” explained Harichunder. About 80% of eThekwini was under 15% water restrictions, as were Pietermaritzburg and uMgungundlovu. “These restrictions will remain in place during the festive season. An appeal is made to consumers to be mindful of water shortages and to use water sparingly,” he said. Daily News