Youandi Gilain, founder of Open Arms SA, spoke to the Daily News just days after a newborn baby boy was found dumped in a toilet near a medical facility on the Bluff. Despite resuscitation efforts, the infant was pronounced dead at the scene. Gilain, whose facility is less than 5km from where the baby was abandoned, said she had felt helpless when she found out about the little boy’s ordeal. “We are just a few metres away. The mother could have left him at our safe and he could have been saved,” she said. Open Arms SA is a project of Isaiah 54, a home for abused and abandoned children. Gilain and Glynnis Dauth, who manages Isaiah 54, said it was heart-wrenching when they heard of infants found in drains and dustbins around the city. “We offer an alternative for mothers in despair,” Gilain said. She said there was a mat placed inside the box where mothers could leave their children, aged from birth to 4years. “Once the baby is put inside the safe, it locks from the inside. There is proper ventilation so the baby does not struggle to breathe. “The baby’s weight on the mat then triggers an automated response system that alerts any one of the four people on our network,” Gilain said. “We all receive a text message and have three minutes to respond. If we do not respond within that time, we get a phone call that a baby has been dropped off. We then rush out and fetch the baby,” she said. The baby is then immediately taken to a doctor. A social worker is contacted for the required documentation to be filled out and the baby to be registered. “It is easier this way because we do not have to see the mother and she does not have to be interrogated as to why she cannot care for her child,” Gilain said. Open Arms SA and Isaiah 54 also assist with the adoption process and have had many successful cases where babies and children have been placed in loving homes, both locally and overseas. Gilain said Open Arms had dealt with a case where a mother handed over her baby directly after birth. “I met the mom at the hospital and she had to have a Caesarean-section. I was there during the birth. “Once baby was born, I informed Glynnis and we sent our social worker to speak to the mother. The baby was brought home with me,” she said. Gilain is caring for a 3-month- old baby boy who was found in a sewer on the KwaZulu-Natal South Coast. The baby had a lump on his head from where he fell and an eye infection. “I know how these mothers are looked at by society, but here we are offering them a safer alternative. They can leave their babies here and we do not ask questions. We can help them,” Gilain said. The Domino Foundation, based in Durban North, is another home which offers a baby safe. Daily News