Mohamed Pancor, a manager at Gem Schoolwear in the Durban city centre, said there would not be any specials in January and did not understand why parents left buying uniforms until the last minute. He said their school uniforms were reasonably priced and they did not offer discounts. “No matter whether parents buy now or later, in January, the prices are the same. However, parents who buy now avoid long queues and have the advantage of getting what they want. Late shoppers have to wait to be served and stand a chance of not getting items,” he said. Yesterday, security guards were letting customers into the store in groups of 10 to control the serving of customers inside. Desiree Chundutt, manager at School *  All in Montclair, said schools had custom-made apparel which was not sold at other retail outlets. And, she said, because of unpredictable weather, parents should buy winter items, such as jerseys and track suits, now. “Our prices are competitive and parents appreciate value for money. We have been busy since November, but every January we get an unbearable influx of customers,” she said.  “There is absolutely no reason why schoolwear shopping should not be done now.” Parents and their excited children said they wanted to get uniform shopping out of the way. Nikki McRobbie and her son, Dylan, who will be in Grade 7 at Clifton next year, were at Gem Schoolwear in Overport. “My son is returning to the same school and I needed some items to add to last year’s uniform. I didn’t want to do it at the last minute and now I will have one less thing to worry about,” she said. Yassin Xhokwa, 7, will be starting Grade One and was thrilled about trying on his uniform yesterday. His mother, Nomonde Xhokwa, said Yassin was excited about starting big school and even more excited to wear a school uniform. Andile Gcuma, mother of a soon-to-be Grade One pupil, said she was relieved she had finished uniform shopping and was off to buy stationery before focusing on  Christmas festivities. Daily News