Durban - Three men were killed during a shootout with police following an a robbery in Dalton just outside Pietermaritzburg on Monday. It is alleged that a gang of four men held up a resident who had just withdrawn money from a local bank.  Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane, police spokesperson, said after grabbing the money from the man, the gang got into their getaway vehicle and fled.  "Police were alerted and details of the car were circulated. The Pietermaritzburg Response Unit, Task Force and Dalton police began tracing the vehicle and it was spotted in the vicinity of Dalton. When the suspects saw the police, they abandoned their vehicle and fled to the sugarcane fields whilst shooting at police," he said.  Zwane said one of the men died at the scene while his two accomplices died on the way to hospital.  "The fourth man managed to flee the scene. Police are still searching for him. Two pistols, a revolver, two AK47 rifles and cash taken during the robbery were also recovered. The vehicle was hijacked in Prestbury last year October," he said.  Major General Bheki Langa, KwaZulu-Natal Acting Provincial Commissioner, applauded police officers for their swift response which led to the recovery of firearms as well as stolen cash.  Police have issued a warning to residents not to carry around large amounts of cash.  "They must consider options that are lower risk like carrying as little cash as possible and consider making use of cellphone banking and internet transfers to pay accounts or ATMs to do their banking," Zwane said.  TIPS TO AVOID BEING A VICTIM OF CASH ROBBERIES :  ·         Alternate the days and times on which you deposit cash
·         Refrain from making cash deposits
·         Never make your bank visits public, even to people close to you
·         Do not openly display the money you are depositing while you are standing in the bank queue
·         Avoid carrying money bags, briefcases or openly displaying your deposit receipt book
·         It’s advisable to identify another branch nearby that you can visit to ensure that your banking pattern is not easily recognizable or detected
·         If the amount of cash you are regularly depositing is increasing as your business grows, consider using the services of a cash management company
·         Refrain from giving wages to your contract or casual labourers in full view of the public rather make use of wage accounts that can be provided by your bank
·         Refrain from driving to the bank in your company branded vehicle on a typical ‘pay day’
·         Consider arranging for electronic transfers of wages to your contract or casual labourers’ personal bank accounts. "We would also like to warn all stokvel members to take extra precautions when dealing with large amounts of cash as these types of cases are very prevalent during the festive season when members are sharing money. The members  can arrange with the banks and deposit their cash into their accounts," Zwane said.  Daily News