Addressing the media following an SACP provincial executive committee meeting, SACP KZN secretary Themba Mthembu implored the incoming ANC national executive committee to bring together the warring factions in the ANC in the province and convene a conference for unity. “About the snubbing, we honestly don’t know, but we said in this meeting that we need to do an introspection on why we were snubbed. We need to look at ourselves first before looking at another person,” Mthembu said. The SACP would engage the ANC on various fronts, he said, including its senior leaders being shunned in the new NEC, as it was important for them to have a strong alliance. “We will engage with the ANC because anything that can weaken the alliance will weaken both the ANC and the SACP,” said Mthembu. The SACP rejected suggestions that it would ensure its MPs resigned. “They didn’t go there on their own. They had either been deployed by the ANC or the voters of South Africa, and you need to respect such deployment. “That’s why we’ve called for a reconfiguration of the alliance because we still see the value of the alliance going forward. We cannot afford a situation whereby the imperialists are uniting, the capitalists are uniting and we’re dividing the working class,” said Mthembu. He also said they would strive for the unity of the working class. Mthembu said they would leave calls for President Jacob Zuma’s removal to the NEC.  “We’ll rely on the wisdom of the NEC to look at everything that has been raised around the president and we have full confidence in the current NEC.”   Despite senior SACP leaders being spurned in the newly assembled ANC NEC, Mthembu said the resolutions adopted at the conference indicated a strong willingness on the part of many in the ANC to salvage the movement from self-destruction.  “The resolutions on land and education demonstrate an organisation that has now realised the major frustration among a majority of our country,” Mthembu said. Political analyst Thabani Khumalo said the snubbing of senior SACP leaders in the NEC was a clear sign that the tripartite alliance had reached a point of no-return. Daily News