Kayli Vee Levitan and her colleague, Capetonian Max Pazak, who founded The Street Store, got the idea while they were working for a client who worked with the homeless. “Our offices are in Green Point, Cape Town, a very hip and trendy area, but where you find a lot of homeless people. We saw how the haves and the have-nots cross each other’s paths in the streets, but never really meet,” she said. The 29-year-old said the “haves” feared beggars and ignored them. A consequence of this is that it dehumanises homeless people. “This makes the homeless more comfortable with begging as they view the 'haves' as pockets rather than people.” Levitan, who works as a copywriter at M&C Saatchi Abel, which is behind the initiative, said they needed to bring the two groups of people together so they could learn from each other, to break social stereotypes. They decided on starting a rent-free, pop-up street store because the street was where both groups met. “The Street Store is made up of a series of printed, interactive posters that you attach to fences in public areas. People hang up their donations on the posters and then the homeless can choose clothing they actually like - many for the first time,” Levitan said. To make it accessible to as many people as possible, Levitan said they made it “open-source” - anyone can download their posters and guidebook from anywhere in the world. They have translated the guidebook into 15languages and opened up more than 720stores in more than 200cities around the world. They have clothed hundreds of thousands of people around the world with more than three million items of clothing. “For the general public, we can go into a shop and choose something, whereas the homeless have to take what they can get - whether they like it, need it, or it even fits them. We take our ability to choose what we want for granted,” Levitan said. For people who are used to rummaging through dustbins, The Street Store gives them their dignity back, she said. The beauty of the idea is that one gets to interact with the homeless and hear their stories. This has been what has most affected those who have hosted stores. Levitan, who has been living in the Mother City for the past 11 years, said she would like to see similar stores grow. If you would like to host a store, visit www.thestreetstore.org  mphathi.nxumalo@inl.co.za  Daily News