Durban - Searches are set to resume for two people who allegedly drowned in two separate incidents at the weekend. Craig Lambinon, National Sea Rescue Institute spokesperson, said an alert was issued after a 23-year old diver went missing in the Port of Durban on Sunday. “We believe that the diver reportedly went into the water on a dive to relieve another diver who was already under a ship during dive maintenance operations under a ship berthed in Port. When he had not arrived to relieve the first diver, Aquatech divers initiated a search and notified Transnet National Ports Authority (TNPA)  Port Control,” Lambinon said. The necessary search units and a police dive unit scuba dive searched the area. Aquatech divers joined the police divers in their search and a sea rescue craft carried out a surface water search. Lambinon said there was no sign of the missing diver and the search is set to resume on Monday. Meanwhile, the search for a 13-year old boy who went missing while swimming at unprotected beach in Sheffield on Saturday, is set to resume on Monday. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. On the day, search teams scoured the waters looking for the youngsters but the search had to be called off in the late afternoons of both Saturday and Sunday due to rough sea conditions. Paul Herbst of IPSS Medical Rescue, said his team, together with KDM lifeguards and police search and rescue, covered a vast area looking for the missing teenager. “A drone and motorised vessels were used in the search efforts, which yielded negative results. The search was suspend due to high winds and sea condition and will resume in the morning,” he said. On Sunday, a body was recovered by the IPSS Medical Rescue team at the Tugela River. Herbst said the body was spotted by a fisherman that alerted local authorities. "The deceased man was entangled in debris in the middle of the river. The body was handed over to local SAPS," Herbst said. Daily News