On Christmas morning, at 8.30am, the Bluff couple welcomed Emma Rose at Life Westville Hospital, weighing 3.5kg. They said their daughter had a perfect arrival on a special day for their family, saying she was the most beautiful gift they had ever received on Christmas. Bianca had a Caesarean because of a blood pressure condition. “I had a smooth pregnancy and I am happy that she is healthy.  “Emma is such a blessing and I cannot wait to take her home,” Bianca said. Nonhlanhla and Mthokozisi Mndaweni, of Klaarwater, were the second couple at Westville who welcomed their Christmas present, a baby girl, at 9.24am. The couple got exactly what they had wished for, a perfect little baby girl, as an addition to their family. They have two boys. When Nonhlanhla’s doctor admitted her on Christmas Day, she said her family was excited and prepared to receive the baby. “The boys are so happy. They came to the hospital on the day to meet their sister for the first time. She is such a nice gift and a surprise for all of us that she was born on Christmas Day,” she said. Proud father Mthokozisi said they decided to name her Esethu, which is short for “our gift”. Lenmed eThekwini Hospital and Heart Centre had one Christmas day delivery. Baby girl Sana Shaik made parents Thasmera and Inayaath Shaik so proud. Excited about having their first baby, Thasmera did not want the sex of their baby to be a surprise, so they knew well in advance what to expect. The couple married in 2015 and had been trying to have a child for a year. “The whole family is excited. Everyone is at home because of the holiday and would have an opportunity to meet the new member of our family,” she said. Thasmera chose her daughter’s name, which means “to shine”. Public hospitals in KwaZulu-Natal had a busy Christmas Day at their labour wards as 70 babies, 38 boys and 32 girls, were born. Health MEC Sibongiseni Dhlomo visited King Edward VIII Hospital to congratulate the mothers. Dhlomo expressed concern about those mothers who did not attend antenatal clinics, saying it posed a danger to the unborn baby and mother. He said one mother could not give birth at King Edward because she had not been to an antenatal clinic for the duration of her pregnancy. He also said three of the mothers who gave birth at Murchison Hospital in Newcastle and at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital in Phoenix were 16 years old. Daily News