Clarence Primary School beat 60 other entrants to walk away winners in the Excellence in Education Awards in the category of Most Original and Most Powerful Story. The group of eight pupils and their Youth Press Club teacher, Shahnaaz Omarjee, attended an awareness and education conference in Kloof, under the theme of #AidsFreeGen, which inspired them to come up with a storyboard and their own theme, #BlessedWithoutABlesser. Omarjee said they had to adapt the idea of a blesser for the pupils to understand it at their level. The pupils then worked on a script, with direction from Omarjee, and filmed the short but powerful video.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “In the video, a young boy goes to a new school. He drops his medical prescription that has his (HIV) status on it and other children see it and start bullying him about it,” she explained. By the end of the clip, the children in the video have been educated about the youngster’s condition and welcome him into their circle of friends. “The video and theme tie in because the boy is a victim through his mother’s relationship with an older man. The boy is then born with HIV and has to live with the illness,” Omarjee said. She said she was impressed with the pupils’ understanding of what was required of them and very pleased with the results. “We were so excited when we were told that we had made it to the finalists' round with 14 other entrants. We were flown to Johannesburg, which in itself was a great moment because some of the pupils had not been on an aeroplane before. They were thrilled! "Even if we did not win, just the experience alone was a great one for the pupils. You can just imagine how excited we were to learn that we had won in our category. I am so proud of them,” she said. Clarence's principal, Lyn Breytenbach, said she was proud of the pupils’ accomplishment. Daily News