Durban - Dr Sifiso Mtshali, KwaZulu-Natal Department of Health head, has resigned. 
Mtshali confirmed his resignation on Thursday, adding that “an amicable solution had been reached” between himself and the department. “I am now focusing on the next phase of my life,” he added. Last month, it was revealed that Mtshali had been suspended over the controversial “oncology crisis” that had gripped the province. At the time, he confirmed his suspension but declined to comment further, saying the matter was sub judice. When reports emerged of a crisis within the oncology sector, Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi said it was the head of department and not the Health MEC to blame over the broken oncology machines at Addington Hospital. Commenting to the Daily News, Motsoaledi blamed the non-functional procurement processes and awarding of tenders to incompetent companies in favour of local economic development as a reason for the exodus of doctors. “The heads of departments are responsible for the procurement. In this case, the KZN Health Department head messed up,” he said. Meanwhile, Dr Imraan Keeka, DA KZN Health spokesperson, said the announcement by KZN Premier Willies Mchunu that he had accepted the resignation of Mtshali, came as no surprise. “It was expected that he would have been fired anyway. "The premier’s remarks suggest that he has done so in the best interest of the province. While this may be the case, the premier has shown no political leadership in holding the bigger culprit, MEC (Dr Sibongiseni) Dhlomo, to account. "For as long as he sits on his hands and does not fire the failed MEC, he must not expect KZN Health to turn around. The diseased department has seen HODs, CEOs (chief executive officers) and senior staff come and go while MEC Dhlomo sits there and continues to ruin KZN Health,” he said. Keeka said the premier should understand that the department now had at the helm an MEC that had lost control of it, an acting HOD and an acting chief financial officer. “If this is not a recipe for further disaster, then what is? “The oncology crisis has gone from bad to worse and the financial collapse of the department is imminent. “The premier needs to act urgently. First he needs to fire the MEC and ensure that the acting posts are filled on a full-time basis. The people of KZN deserve better leadership and must punish the premier and his government for the suffering in our health-care facilities,” Keeka said. Daily News