It follows the arrest  of a bogus doctor in a sting operation set up by a joint team comprising Metro Police Crime Prevention, SAPS Crime Intelligence and SAPS Organised Crime Provincial Headquarters on Wednesday. Metro police spokesperson Senior Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad said an undercover operation was conducted on an illegal abortion clinic operating out of a building in the Durban CBD. “Two agents were sent in and the doctor sold them medication that was said to induce labour. “Officers then pounced on the bogus doctor and his wife. “During a search of the premises, police recovered 136 labour-inducing tablets and numerous other electronic devices and documents,” Sewpersad said.  The bogus doctor was operating from two adjoining rooms in the building.  One was his office, where potential clients met to discuss arrangements.  In the second room was a hospital bed where a young woman was found during the police raid. She had already been given medication and was waiting for contractions to begin. In another part of the second room was a chair which had a part of the seat area cut out.  A plastic packet replaced the seat and according to police, women are told to sit on the chair and wait for the foetus to “drop”. Sewpersad said once the foetus had been delivered, the women were handed the packet to discard. “This is why there are so many cases of newborn babies being found all over the city, discarded in bins and other places. We will continue to raid these types of establishments,” he said. The woman who was found in the rooms was taken to Addington Hospital by ambulance where she delivered a stillborn baby boy. The doctor and his wife will face a number of charges, including impersonating a doctor and charges in terms of the Choice on Termination of Pregnancy Act. This legislation came into force on February 1, 1997 providing abortion on demand for a variety of cases. Hoosen Moolla, iTrump senior manager, said they would work with law enforcement agencies to deal with bogus doctors.  “There are places to have safe abortions. By young women coming to these places, they are putting their own lives at risk. We need to ensure that women are aware of places where legal abortions can take place,” he said.  Row-Anne Hunsley, a Durban-based clinical psychologist, said women do not realise the lasting impact that going to illegal abortion clinics can have on them.  Hunsley said the woman is “not counselled before or after the procedure. Even though there may be medication administered for pain afterwards, the decision to go through an abortion is in itself scary and traumatic.  “Now she has to find the inner strength to get rid of the baby and the desensitisation of the whole miracle of giving birth. She has to treat the baby like just another dirty item to be dumped in the bin,” Hunsley said.  She said the woman would also have to live with the flashbacks, panic attacks, anxiety and may  suffer mental health problems later.  “If the matter goes to court, there is the trauma of repeating the story all over again when she gives her statement. In this case the woman will have to testify. She will need to be properly briefed and debriefed A trauma counselling psychologist or psychiatrist will be able to determine if she is fit to stand trial,” Hunsley said.  Steve Middleton, Acting Metro Police Commissioner, commended the team on the bust.  He said: “We may not get to everything all at once, but we are sticking to MEC Mxolisi Kaunda’s promise when he declared war on crime. We will be relentless in our pursuit.”  Daily News