Durban - Investigative journalist Jacques Pauw believes a request to meet him made by a policeman from the Durban North station was an attempt to intimidate him. Pauw’s lawyer, Willem de Klerk, told Independent Media on Thursday that Colonel Reuben Govender, who is based in Durban, had asked to meet his client. Pauw and News24 journalist Pieter-Louis Myburgh said this week that police wanted to meet them, although they had no idea about the possible reason. Myburgh is the author of The Republic of Gupta and he has also written about several alleged corrupt relationships involving government officials. In Pauw’s recently published book, The President’s Keepers, he claims President Jacob Zuma was on the payroll of a company, Royal Security, which is owned by Durban businessman Roy Moodley, and he claims the president was paid a salary of R1million a month for a period after becoming president of South Africa. The book also mentions Zuma’s son Edward and Pietermaritzburg-based tobacco tycoon Yusuf Kajee. Pauw told eNCA yesterday that there were various police investigations against him. “One of them seems to be emanating from KZN. My lawyers have received a letter from the colonel saying that he wants to see me on a Monday or Tuesday morning. “He refuses to say what charges he’s investigating. We will co-operate. We are trying to arrange a meeting for Monday or Tuesday morning.” The initial request was for Pauw and Myburgh to meet at the Durban North police station, but it is possible that this meeting will now take place in Gauteng. “We know about the State Security Agency charges, but I don’t know what the investigation in KZN is about. “About three weeks ago, I received information that Colonel Govender had approached a Pietermaritzburg magistrate to try to get a warrant for my arrest. “Colonel Govender refuses to say what he is investigating; he refuses to say what the charges against me are.” Pauw said he and Myburgh had maintained that they would co-operate with any police investigation, but he described the arrangements as “intimidating tactics”. “My lawyers are dealing with it and if it’s necessary, I will meet with them on Monday or Tuesday. “I don’t know who laid a charge against me or what his evidence is. He bluntly refuses to co-operate with us. “We believe we have acted within the confines of the law. We will defend whatever charge they bring against us.” National police spokesperson Vishnu Naidoo refused to comment on the matter. De Klerk said if Pauw and Myburgh were required to appear in any criminal court, they would fully co-operate without the need for arrest. Daily News