While for many this may just be a safe passage to indulge in alcohol, shop till they drop or party till the sun comes up, Paul Rowney, of Red Frogs, said it was their job to ensure that all the Ragers’ needs were met. Red Frogs is a non-profit organisation which safeguards matriculants during their night of partying. It provides services like walking matriculants to their places of accommodation and the popular pancakes call-in. “Our job is to never leave a frog behind. We build relationships to a point where they are comfortable sharing almost anything with us. We are that sober friend,” he said. “We make it our duty to know everybody on such a level that they do not hesitate to pick up their phones and call us for anything they may have a problem with. We build relationships with everybody we come in contact with.  “We do this with every matriculant to create a very supportive yet safe environment.” Rowney said their work would not be possible had it not been for the help of their sponsors who made sure their duty to matriculants was fulfilled. “Without the help of our sponsors (GEM clothing and Bidvest McCarthy Mhlanga/Ballito) we wouldn’t be able to serve and safeguard these young people,” he said Warren Hollenbach, who is in his seventh year of volunteering, said the Rage Festival used to be like an uncontrollable animal and was marred with controversy, but it had begun to be tamed. When the Red Frogs were around the atmosphere changed, he said. “We believe the culture is starting to change and things are not as hectic as they used to be a few years ago,” Hollenbach said. Describing the work of an ordinary Red Frog, Hollenbach said they wanted to be real in a forever synthetic environment. According to Rowney, Red Frogs has volunteers all over the country, with some coming from as far off as Canada. Rager Lauran Friend, of Johannesburg, said she was very excited to be attending this year’s event. Describing her experience with the Red Frogs, Lauran said they were like family away from home. “The Red Frogs have literally been like family and friends I’ve known for years. They are very easy to engage with and they provide us with the best service. We really appreciate everything they do for us,” she said. Robyn Welff, also of Joburg, echoed her friend’s sentiments. “It’s been very eventful and exciting. It’s my first time in Durban. There’s never a dull moment in the company of Red Frogs, they are funny and very friendly too,” Welff said. Rage Festival director William Mcintyre said this year’s event would be cashless. “We have made online platforms available where attendees can top up online, or they can use top-up stations available at various venues,” he said. “We encountered many problems last year regarding cash-run services and we wanted to make the whole operation easier and stress-free this year. We have a long-standing relationship with the Red Frogs, almost 10 years, and they have been amazing,” Welff said. Daily News