Durban - More than 3000 newly trained police officers have been added to the police force. The officers’ pass out parade was held today for 3499 young men and women who have completed their Basic Police Training Learning Programme will be deployed across the country just in time for the festive season. The passing-out parades were held at SAPS Tshwane Academy, SAPS Bhisho Academy in the Eastern Cape and SAPS Bishop Lavis in the Western Cape. 
The police trainees,  935 females and 2564 males, who stood on parade are the second intake to graduate from the revised Basic Police Training Learning Programme which was introduced in 2016. 
General Khehla Sitole, National Police Commissioner, said the revised programme comprised of an induction phase of one month, which is intended to familiarise trainees with the police station environment and the overall basic activities of the community service centres. During this phase, trainees develop a better understanding of policing duties which eventually prepares them towards their learning abilities for the Academy. The trainees then proceed to one of the SAPS training academies for eight months where they are trained as police officials. This training is a combination of theory and practice. Once completed, members are then deployed as fully-fledged constables to their various police stations across the country, where they serve a one-year probation period, which is also seen as an in-service training programme. The training programme allows officers to provide a more efficient and effective policing service to ensure that the people of South Africa are and feel safe. Sitole congratulated the newly trained officers and encouraged them to implement their skills and knowledge at the various police stations nationwide. “Members on parade, you will need to continuously learn and apply what you have been taught, in an endless process of improving your policing skills.  In your career as a police officer, remember that your focus should always be the citizens of this country, the people you have to serve and protect. Use the powers granted to you with an accompanying sense of responsibility, and be ethical in all that you do. Treat all people with respect. Respect and humility will keep you on the right track in trying times, even when criminals try to lure you into criminality for corrupt gains. Live and work in such a way that your colleagues and the community will respect you,” he said. Fikile Mbalula, Minister of Police, during his keynote address, urged the new officers to uphold the constitution of the country, thereby respecting all human rights in the execution of their policing mandate. Daily News