Durban A Pinetown family lost almost everything when a fire ripped through their home in a matter of minutes . I am still absorbing what happened and trying to stay strong for everyone in the family. Everyone in the family is traumatised, said homeowner Wayne Naidu.Naidu said he had left his house on Thursday to fetch one of his daughters from school. On his way back, Naidu said he received a call from his wife, Jenny, who told him their home was on fire. He initially did not think the fire was bad until he approached his house and could see the smoke billowing from across the road.He found the house had been gutted by flames and paramedics had already arrived. Firefighters arrived shortly afterwards. His wife, Jenny, was home when the fire started. She had smelled something burning inside the house and went to investigate. She realised the smell was coming from their daughter s room and when she opened the door the flames had already engulfed it. She quickly ran out to call for help. It took just 20 minutes for the fire to destroy the majority of the home. So intense was the fire, the paint and plastering came off, he said. Wayne Naidu's house on Cheriton Drive in Pinetown was razed. Picture: Sibusiso Ndlovu Naidu, who works from home as a deal facilitator for vehicles, managed to save some of his office equipment, but the family lost most of their possessions in the fire. Emergency services were able to rescue their 8-month-old family pet parrot, Rio, whose cage had been singed by the fire. Naidu said Rio had been inside the house and rescuers had reacted promptly.Naidu said assessors would be coming to his home on Friday to take a look at the damage.As firemen put out the fire, neighbours were offering assistance to the Naidu family.Rescue Care s Garrith Jamieson said: Just before 2pm while Rescue Care Paramedics and emergency services were attending to an accident scene, they noticed thick black smoke billowing from a neighbouring complex. On investigating further, they found a unit in a complex well alight. The Durban Fire Department was called to assist. Daily News