Durban A one-state solution to the Palestinian-Israeli conflict could be the way to go, said South African religious groups in reaction to the latest stance by US President Donald Trump. During the visit of Israeli president Benjamin Netanyahu to the White House on Wednesday, Trump seemed to move away from the long-held two-state solution. Instead, he said he could live with either a one- or two-state solution.Faisal Suleman, of the South African Muslim Network, said the talk of a one-state solution might be new to Americans, but was something many people in the international community had been advocating. He said that Palestinians had been arguing for a one- state solution, but the state would have to ensure that Israelis and Palestinians had equal rights. It would be a model similar to the one in South Africa. Suleman said it would be great if Trump visited Gaza and the Palestinian settlements to get a first-hand experience of the conditions Palestinians lived under.Dr Lubna Nadvi, a political analyst, echoed Suleman s sentiment, saying a one-state solution was something the Palestine solidarity community locally and internationally had been supporting for a long time. It is the ideal and just solution, she said.Nadvi said that although Trump s comments were not thought out, he inadvertently supported a one-state solution. What was important though, she said, was that the rights of Palestinians were maintained and they were treated as equal citizens in the country.Kwara Kekana, of the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions Against Israel in South Africa group, said: The oppressed people of Palestine must come up with their own solution, whether it is one state or two. She said they would continue to support the Palestinians through their activities of boycotting, as well as encouraging divestment from and sanctioning of Israel.Arthur Lenk, Israeli ambassador to South Africa, felt that the best way to find a solution was through dialogue so that everyone could benefit. He said the South African method of dialogue when the country was moving to a democratic dispensation, was the preferred method. Israel has said that they are ready to talk, Lenk said. The US has always been Israel s best friend irrespective of who was in power the Democrats or the Republicans. Ben Swartz, chairperson of the South African Zionist Federation, said there could have been a misinterpretation of what Trump said which people understood as a move away from a two-state solution.He said the White House released a statement about two weeks ago, reaffirming the two-state solution. Swartz said negotiations were the key to finding a lasting solution. The Arab and Muslim world is a big part of the negotiations, he said. The mending of fences was something millions of friends of Israel around the world would be celebrating. South Africans should take whatever steps to encourage both sides to get closer and find a solution, Swartz said. Daily News