Durban - The man accused of killing Brighton Beach policeman Constable Thomas Khwela was remanded at Westville Prison.Xolani Zungu, 30, of Mariannhill, told the Durban Magistrate s Court on Friday that he did not want to be kept in custody at the police holding cells because he feared for his life.He appeared in court on two counts of robbery with aggravating circumstances and one count of murder.Police are still on the hunt for the remainder of the gang that held up a petrol garage on Solomon Mahlangu (Edwin Swales) Drive on Tuesday. Police said Khwela, 37, and his partner had responded to a business robbery last week and were ambushed by three robbers. One of them shot Khwela while fleeing. Zungu was arrested nearby.He was found in possession of a Z88 pistol with 15 rounds of ammunition. In the Durban Magistrate s Court on Friday, the bare-footed Zungu walked into the dock grimacing in pain. His Legal Aid attorney told the court that Zungu had been assaulted by police. Magistrate Mohamed Motala asked him to show the court his injuries. Zungu limped out and showed the court an open cut on his foot. His attorney said he had bruises all over his body and was in pain. Zungu, who was detained at Montclair SAPS, said he was sure the police would kill him if he stayed there. His attorney told the court Zungu was present at the scene but had no knowledge of the robbery or murder of the policeman. Prosecutor Calvin Govender said police had also linked Zungu to a business robbery in Mariannhill. Motala remanded the case for further investigation and sent Zungu to Westville Prison until his next appearance on Friday. In another court appearance, murder accused Dhayalan Pillay s case was set down for March 31. He intended pleading guilty to killing Annalene Pillay at her workplace. He allegedly shot her multiple times. Govender said the State would indict Pillay to appear in the Durban High Court. Pillay s lawyer Kiran Subajan said the plea was drafted but needed finalisation and for the prosecutor to accept it. Daily News