Durban - The KwaZulu-Natal ANC Youth League on Sunday endorsed Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma as its presidential candidate at the end of its three-day elective conference.Speaking at the conference, the newly elected provincial chairperson, Kwazi Mshengu, said they had been mandated by the branches to do so. When the leadership discussions officially open ahead of the December ANC conference, the youth league will pass this resolution, Mshengu told journalists.Other leaders elected were: Sbo Thembela Hlabangane as deputy chairperson, Thandu&shy;xolo Sabelo as secretary, Nomfundo Zwane-Dlamini as deputy secretary and Thobelani Ncaphalala as treasurer.The establishment of youth directorates in all municipalities by the end of next month was also deliberated on. Bank boycott The ANC leadership agreed to this. We want a 40% youth representation in the national and provincial governments. We can t talk about renewing the ANC when we don t have young people in leadership positions in ANC structures and government, Mshengu said.He called on the youth to cut all ties with existing banks and open accounts with Ithala Bank. The private sector has no political will to uplift the living conditions of the poor and black youth in particular. We are making a call for the utilisation of Ithala Bank by all government departments, he said.They also called for the abolition of experience as a requirement for employment at entry level positions.Sabelo said: Employees should focus on on-the-job experience. We appeal to the ANC leadership to engage the corporate sector on this matter because it doesn t make sense to require experience for a receptionist who can learn the job in two weeks. Other jobs like assistant directors don t require experience because candidates can learn on the job. Political analyst Protas Madlala said the window period to make pronouncements on preferred leaders was not open yet and this could result in the youth league being reprimanded by the ANC. Nothing is clear cut in the ANC because of party divisions. It s no longer like Mangaung and Polokwane where they all spoke in one voice for a common goal. Now there are camps and some party supporters are not taking their leaders seriously. The cracks within the party and its alliance partners are not healthy ahead of the December conference, Madlala said. Mdumiseni Ntuli, ANC provincial spokesperson, said the ANC had not started leadership discussions yet. We are working on finding each other, first and foremost. We plan to go to regions with the policy and our political perspective on the matter and it will depend on whether people are comfortable with our political perspective that we start talking about names. Discussing names cannot be the first step, Ntuli said.Daily News