Durban The family of the Brighton Beach police officer who was shot dead during a robbery at a service station in Durban on Monday had buried his elder brother just two days before.The killing of 37-year-old Qhamuka Thomas Khwela, a constable at the Brighton Beach police station, was a double blow to the family, his brother, Philangezwi Khwela, said on ay. He had taken a few days of family responsibility leave last week to assist with the funeral arrangements. We buried our beloved older brother, Sekhona, on Saturday. He had been ill. On Sunday, we spent the day at home with the whole family and rested as Qhamuka was going to return to work the next day, he said.The constable left home in Mariannhill, where he lived with his mother and five siblings, in the afternoon to work the night shift. I saw him before he left home. He wore his full uniform and he looked very neat as usual. We expected him to return home from duty in the morning. But later that night, we received a call informing us that he had been shot during a robbery. We were shattered. Our mother is traumatised. She is heartbroken about losing two sons days apart, he said. We are more shattered with the latest death in the family and feel that we have been robbed of his life. We are hoping that his killers will be arrested soon, said Philangezwi.According to police, Khwela and his partner were patrolling the Bluff on Monday night when they responded to a robbery in progress at a Shell Garage on Solomon Mahlangu (Edwin Swales) Drive. However, a witness, who did not want to be named, said the officers did not know a robbery was in progress, and they had gone to the service station for refreshments. They were attacked by three robbers. The policeman was shot in the head, the witness said.One of the robbers disarmed Khwela.Police arrested one of the suspects who had fled the shooting on foot. His two accomplices made their getaway in a green minibus taxi. According to the witness, the men had demanded money and the safe keys from the garage cashier and the security guard. One robber had a big bag, which he used to pack cigarette boxes from the counter. The second robber demanded the cashier open the till and he removed the money. As the two police officers approached, they were attacked by the suspects who disarmed one officer and the confrontation ended up with one of the police officers dead, the witness said.The incident has shocked the police service, including officers who worked closely with Khwela at Brighton Beach police station.Colleagues described him as a dedicated policeman and a young man who still had much to contribute to the police service. He became a police officer six years ago.Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said a 9mm pistol suspected to belong to the robbers was found at the scene.Zwane confirmed that the suspects fled with cigarettes and an undisclosed amount of cash. No further arrests have been made.Daily News