Durban - Another year and property owners face another increase in rates. However, property owners in Currie Road, Durban, are taking a stand against their values for a different reason. They say they have had to put up with a monstrous building in their area which is negatively affecting the value of their homes.Construction at the 317 Currie Road site has stopped because neighbouring property owners objected to the development and took the matter to court. Clive Walker, who has a flat in Surrey Mansions, said the value of his property had dropped by 10% as a result of the building. Some of us are valued at about 25% less. This is not good at all. I m about 100 metres from the construction site, but you can see how this has affected my property, Walker said.Initially, plans were approved for a four-storey building, but the plans changed to a nine-storey structure.Senior advocate Tyob Aboobaker, his wife Fareeda, and other residents in the area challenged the developers, Serengeti Rise Industries, and eThekwini municipality, which authorised the changed plans, in court.Court proceedings in this regard are ongoing.The Daily News previously reported that the city rezoned the area from GR1 to GR5 in December 2011, which led to Serengeti submitting a deviation plan to increase the bulk of the building from about 1 800 m2 to 9 786 m2. The plan was approved in February 2014. Cynthia Carrick, another property owner in the area, said neighbours wanted the building demolished. It has devalued our properties. A judgment was given and the developer appealed. This building is deteriorating and is being eaten away by the rain. Their (the developers ) appeal has been delayed twice already, Carrick said.Aboobaker said residents of 311 Currie Road, Cadogan Gardens, Surrey Mansions and 6 Winter Place were preparing to do battle with the municipality again. Unless the municipality sees sense, some residents are prepared to go to the highest court in the land to assert their rights. The monstrosity at 317 Currie Road has killed the values of properties surrounding it and in the broader vicinity. The municipality is simply using some kind of robotic formula in valuing properties on the valuation roll. While ordinarily this method would have been appropriate in most instances, the formula should have taken into account the serious negative impact of this horrendous development on surrounding properties. The valuations should be adjusted downwards by up to 25% and in the case of 311 Currie Road and 6 Winter Avenue by 30% or more, he said.The municipality is encouraging property owners to inspect the latest valuation roll, released last week, and lodge objections by the end of March.Krish Kumar, deputy city manager of finance, said the roll contained more than 500 000 property entries, the majority of which fall within the residential rating category. The remaining categories included commercial properties, sectional title units and vacant land. This general valuation is required to be undertaken at least once every four years in terms of the Municipal Property Rates Act, said Kumar. Previous rolls were released in 2008 and 2012, with the latest to come into effect from July 1, 2017 and last until June 30, 2021. Kumar said an objection may be lodged against an entry in the valuation roll, and not the valuation roll as a whole. The objector will be informed in writing of the outcome of this objection and will have a right to appeal that decision, he said.Lilian Develing, a property owner in Pinetown, said she recently looked up the complex where she had moved in 16 months ago and the valuation for her unit had gone up 35%. I m waiting for the draft tariffs to see how much rates and services have gone up. Those I have spoken to do not know how to look up their properties. The increases are frightening, especially for pensioners. It applies to all pensioners and people on grants, but their income does not increase to match the amount paid for rates. I am waiting to see how much the rates will go up and if there is any increase in the pension rebate, Develing said.The 2017 general valuation roll is available on www.durban.gov.za. Objection forms can be downloaded from the website and queries can be directed to val.roll@durban.gov.za.Submission of objections can be done manually at all Sizakala Centres and at the Real Estate Unit at 75 Dr John Langalibalele Dube (Winder) Street. Daily News