Durban Scores of businesses plan to pack up and leave the city, while many others do not want to do business within the municipal boundaries of eThekwini Municipality. This emerged in a report presented to the eThekwini Economic Development and Planning Committee meeting at the City Hall on Thursday. The report was produced by Deloitte and Touche in collaboration with the Durban Investment Promotion and Trade and Investment KZN, to capture a detailed picture of the challenges and opportunities for investing in the region. It revealed that 28% of respondents surveyed were considering moving their business operations out of Durban. This report lists, among other factors, poor municipal management and service delivery, a lack of general political stability and leadership, deteriorating and incomplete infrastructure, unnecessary red tape and high levels of corruption.The survey was conducted in October among 59 foreign and local companies of differing sizes and industries.Nicole Graham, a DA councillor and deputy leader in eThekwini, said the report was concerning. This shows poor financial management, and political leadership are hurting the city s poorest and most vulnerable citizens. It is indisputable that these factors meaning that a number of businesses plan to leave eThekwini continue to contribute to the growing unemployment rate in this city.We need to get the basics right, manage public money properly and look after our infrastructure. The fact that we have failed to obtain a clean audit also indicates that we are not making progress in improving this situation, she said.According to the report, the factors highlighted by the interviewees were all considered as the main disincentives to investment and growth. The report also found Durban was lagging behind Johannesburg when it came to robust economic growth, developed financial markets and availability of a highly skilled workforce. The city lagged behind Cape Town in the areas of good innovation capacity and, to some extent, to sound public finances and good administration. Professor Bonke Dumisa, an economist, said people needed to calm their nerves about an exodus of businesses from the city because, contrary to most people linking it to political uncertainty in Durban, this was not the case. Everywhere there are businesses wanting to move, it has happened in Johannesburg and Cape Town, but in Cape Town nobody said it is due to political uncertainty, said Dumisa.He said businesses looked for an exit from the city to the outskirts to become more accessible to clients. The congestion of businesses in the city, said Dumisa, led to a struggle for parking which was an important part of business. Sometimes in business, if there are 100 business starting at the beginning of the year, by the end of the year, there are 50% of those businesses left, and by the fourth year, only 30 to 40% of those businesses are still in operation, Dumisa said.Despite the 28% wanting to leave, the report said there were at least 56% of respondents interviewed who planned to invest in the city in the coming years. The city said it was aware of the study s results.Tozi Mthethwa, eThekwini spokesperson, said: We are currently studying the research to determine the accuracy of the findings. The findings, if found conclusive, will be used in determining how the city can better service the businesses, she said. -Additional Reporting Samkelo Mtshali and Mphathi NxumaloDaily News