Durban Attending an afternoon soccer match saved a Richmond man s life on Saturday. As he cheered his team on, gunmen were storming his home and killing four relatives, including his 7-year-old niece.This brought the total to eight people killed in separate attacks on Saturday. Transport, Community Safety and Liaison MEC Mxo-lisi Kaunda called these senseless killings an indication of the lack of morals in society. Earlier that day, Quinton Dawood said goodbye to his family as he left to watch Maritzburg United take on Kaizer Chiefs at the Harry Gwala Stadium in Pietermaritzburg. While at the stadium, he received a call that his family had been attacked. His 60-year-old grandmother, Cecelia Chiliza, his cousin, Nkosinathi Masango, 26, his uncle, Dumisani Chiliza 48, and his 7-year-old niece, Esihle Molefe, were killed.Armed men kill four family membersThree relatives survived the attack, including his 11-year-old daughter, his 4-year-old nephew, who was shot in the buttocks, and his girlfriend s cousin. On my way home, I kept praying that it was not true. As I walked towards the gate, I saw police vans and lots of people in the yard. It dawned on me that something terrible had happened, he said. When I got home it was like my worst nightmare had come true, Dawood said.Four bodies lay in a pool of blood in his grandmother s rondavel.Masango s girlfriend, only known as Foh, survived the shooting by hiding under the bed. Her 4-year-old son Lifa Masango, was sleeping on the bed when the attack happened. He was shot in the buttocks and was taken to hospital.Dawood s daughter, Noxolo, 11, who had also been sleeping in the same room when the shooting happened, survived.The rondavel in Richmond where four people were killed. Picture: Doctor Ngcobo/Daily News I have not seen anything this evil. There was blood everywhere. It was a miracle there were people who survived here, he said.Dawood said that his daughter Noxolo, Masango s girlfriend and her child were visiting the family for the weekend and were expected to leave yesterday. If it was not for the soccer match, I would probably have been at home when the shooting happened. Maybe I could have done something to save them or I would have been killed too, he said.He said he did not know what the motive for the attack could have been and that nothing was stolen. I have left it in the hands of the police to solve this mystery and to find the killers, he said.Colonel Thembeka Mbhele, a police spokesperson, said it appeared the gunmen kicked down the door to the rondavel and started shooting.She said the family could not say how many attackers there were because they were trying to hide from the shooters. Mbhele said Richmond police were investigating.In a separate incident on Saturday night, three male relatives in eMatimatolo in Greytown were shot dead.Menzi Mkhize, 38, Busani Mkhize, 38, and Siphesihle Mkhize, 20, were walking home after attending a traditional ceremony when they were fatally shot by unknown men.Mbhele said the motive for the killing was not yet known and police were investigating.Meanwhile, the number of murders in Durban hostels continues to rise.Police said 41-year-old Somfana Sangweni was shot dead after dropping off his girlfriend on Saturday night.In another hostel killing, 50-year-old Bha Nonhlanga, who ran a tuckshop at Glebelands Hostel, was found shot dead in his room. This brings the death toll at the hostel to 74. MEC Kaunda said police were directed to work flat out to apprehend those responsible. It s shocking that so many lives were lost in one evening. Again it is clear that the availability of illegal firearms is the key driver of these evil acts. The murder of a child in Richmond is a further indication of the decline in morals and behaviour, said Kaunda.He appealed to members of these communities to be calm and encouraged them to work with the police. Criminals must face the full might of the law as soon as possible so that a clear message is sent out that KwaZulu-Natal is not a lawless province, he said.Major General Bheki Langa, acting provincial police commissioner, condemned the killings and called on anyone with information to assist the police. It is becoming a trend for people to be killed in such a brutal and horrific manner, either because of revenge or domestic-related matters, he said.Daily News