Durban As a Chatsworth father recovers from a brutal attack by a pack of young drag racers, Metro Police could be rapped over the knuckles for turning a blind eye to illegal street racing on a notorious section of Umgeni Road, a popular haunt for thrill seekers.Deputy Mayor Fawzia Peer, who chairs the eThekwini Municipality s security and disaster management unit, told POST this week she was concerned about reports of ongoing illegal racing, in the vicinity of Makro, even when police were present.She plans to meet Metro Police senior management to launch an investigation into the continued unlawful behaviour. This stems from an incident on Thursday evening when 33-year-old Kuban Pather inadvertently found himself in the middle of a drag race after jumping a red traffic light, allegedly because of security reasons.Minutes later, the mob of angry drivers pounced on him at a local garage, hitting and booting him, even as lay on the ground.Cellphone footage of the horror beating went viral on social media, sparking widespread outrage.Pather, who works for the municipality as a small plant mechanic, told POST that the pipsqueaks who attacked him felt brave enough to fight only as a gang. The guys didn t even give me time to talk. If they said they wanted to sort it out as gentlemen, I would have even bought them a Coke and spoke about it, but to get that angry is unacceptable. Beaten driver comes forward Also read: Durban cops crack down on street racers He said during the beating all he could think about was his 2-year-old son.No one, he added, intervened to assist.The man then drove home to attend to his injuries but was admitted to hospital on Monday after experiencing headaches and dizziness. X-trays, he said, revealed swelling in the skull area. These rich, spoilt rubbishes (sic) need to be disciplined the hard way, said Pather. Justice must be done. Peer condemned the barbaric behaviour of those who assaulted Pather. Whatever the reason, we cannot take the law into our own hands, she said. Those responsible and who are seen on the footage, must be brought to book and the full might of the law must take its course. She said she was deeply concerned at reports of illegal drag racing. This is apparently a weekly occurrence. Since Metro Police falls under the committee I chair, I am concerned at reports that suggest that some of these law enforcement officers are present, while on duty, during the illegal racing. She said she would commission a report on the feasibility of installing CCTV cameras on this road, which she believes would be a deterrent to illegal street racing and ensure prompt action by police.Peer added that motor sports was popular among enthusiasts and had the potential of drawing tourists to the city. I believe that if a track is built to accommodate legal races, this will add to the city s tourist attractions. She said that over the past few years, a number of motorists were killed while taking part in illegal racing and that a track built by the city and run by a professional body would make the sport safer.Metro Police spokesperson Sibonelo Mchunu agreed that street racing along Umgeni Road was a concern.He said that while police patrolled the area weekly, they were not there on Thursday night. This area has been notorious for street racing for years. There are many places in the area used to race. Over the years culprits have appeared in court and sanctions ranged from suspension of their driving licences to fines, he said. However, Road Traffic Management Corporation spokesperson Simone Zwane said motorists who participate in illegal street racing must be arrested as they jeopardised the safety of other motorists. Kas Moodley, chairperson of KZN Motor Racing, welcomed Peer s acknowledgement of the popularity of the sport and the importance of providing a platform for legal races. He said the only way to curb illegal racing was visible policing. Police know where the hot spots are. They just need to be at the areas when the illegal street races are taking place. POST