Durban Convicted former KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson Vincent Mdunge on Sunday denied he was a fugitive. I am not running away from the law. In fact I will never run from the law. First, I have done nothing wrong. I am actually co-operating with the law and my matters regarding this case are handled in the court of law, he said.Mdunge refused to say if he had launched an appeal against his conviction of fraud and forgery with the Supreme Court of Appeal.He refused to answer questions on whether or not he was supposed to have handed himself over to prison authorities last week.After losing a High Court appeal against his conviction and a five-year jail sentence handed down last Monday, Mdunge was expected to either launch an appeal to the Supreme Court of Appeals in Bloemfontein or go to jail within 48 hours.His lawyer, Advocate Yusuf Omar, confirmed they had 24 to 48 hours to launch an appeal at the Supreme Court or report to prison.Omar told the Daily News he was still waiting for Mdunge to give him final instructions on Friday. I am awaiting my client s instructions whether he would make an appeal to the Supreme Court. I have also advised him to ask for a bail extension if he wants to appeal, said Omar.When questioned about not meeting the deadline to report to prison, Mdunge denied that he had a deadline of up to 48 hours. I do not know where the media is getting the deadline from. The issue of me going to prison is a sensitive matter that I am not prepared to discuss in the media. You (media) have been speculating about when I am supposed to be in jail. I handle my matters through my lawyers in a court of law, he said. I was in court last week with my wife and my children; they all came to support me. I cannot however discuss in the media why I was there, he said.Mdunge, 50, held the rank of colonel when he was charged.Mdunge was convicted of forgery and fraud for presenting a fake matric certificate to gain a promotion, and entrance to do further studies at the University of South Africa.He has a five-year prison sentence hanging over his head.Daily News