Durban A couple who allegedly hired a witness to testify in favour of their son who faced an attempted murder charge applied for bail on Friday. The Bluff couple, Hannah and Dean Pillay, and the man they allegedly hired, Malusi Khumalo, stand accused of corruption and defeating the ends of justice.According to the affidavit of the investigating officer, Warrant Officer Marius van der Looy, a man was shot in the stomach and head in Brighton Beach on the Bluff in April 2012.The victim was in hospital for months and is now wheelchair-bound. Brighton Beach police arrested Shogan Pillay. He appeared in the Durban Regional Court for the shooting.His trial was adjourned until April 24 this year. On Friday the court heard that in November last year, Pillay s mother, Hannah, allegedly approached a work colleague to find someone to testify that he was present when the incident happened and that Pillay was not responsible for the shooting. The matter was set down for trial on January 17. The mother allegedly told her colleague that they were prepared to pay R1 000. This was arranged and the parents apparently met Khumalo, 32, at a shopping mall on the Bluff the day before her son was expected to appear in court.They allegedly discussed what to say. Khumalo testified in court and was apparently paid the money. The three were arrested after an investigation.The State further alleged that after the victim had testified, the couple persuaded him to make an affidavit stating he lied in court and could not recall who had shot him and that it was not Pillay.Van der Looy stated in his affidavit that the accused was a danger to the public and had attempted to influence or intimidate witnesses. He also said the three would undermine or jeopardise the objectives of the bail system. Van Der Looy said the crimes were well planned and executed. Should they be granted bail, members of society would lose faith in the justice system, said Van der Looy in his affidavit.Represented by a Legal Aid attorney, the court heard that Khumalo had three previous convictions for possession of dagga and possession of property suspected to be stolen. Defence attorney Sunil Singh, representing the couple, said Hannah had no previous convictions and the couple had three children. Singh said Dean had a common assault conviction in 1993. Both have health issues. Singh said his clients intended pleading guilty. In granting the three bail, Magistrate Mahomed Motala said the couple had responsible backgrounds and after getting a taste of getting into trouble, should adhere to bail conditions.However, the magistrate said that while they were trying to get their son out of a serious situation, it was a violation of the judicial system. Motala also found that Khumalo was desperate financially. Khumalo was granted R1000 bail and the couple R2500 each. The case was transferred to the regional court and adjourned until February 28. All three were warned not to contact any witnesses.Daily News