Durban A pensioner is fighting the eThekwini Municipality because he claims the city caused more than R300 000 in damage to his home. However, he was apparently told the city did not have the money to repair it.Komare Sadapal, 74, from Bonela, said the problem had his family frustrated. It started in in 2014 when the municipality tried to build a pond near his home. Its efforts destroyed his fence and created holes in his garden which have become worse over the years. This has resulted in their dreading the rain as the rising water threatens to flood their home.Three years ago, when the municipality began to work at Bonela Secondary School near his property, he was told the municipality was building a pond to help with drainage. The pond, said the pensioner, was supposed to be above a manhole. Sadapal s home lies in a trough.They removed sand near his home to start construction. Efforts to build the pond failed and the project was abandoned. The water can t drain on to the road, he said. He realised how big the problem was when it began to rain because his home s pipes, fence and foundations were severely damaged. When it rains, water floods our house, Sadapal said.He took up the issue with the municipality. He went to the roads and stormwater maintenance department but was apparently told to go to their insurance department. They told me they did not have the money to fix the house, he said.He was told to get three quotations from engineers and produce documents like his title deed. They showed the damage to his house totalled about R300 000. The problem has taken its toll on his wife, Dayawanthi, 70, who has a heart problem and is often ill. He said they were afraid when it rained and they had to try to limit the damage caused by water. As a pensioner, Sadapal said he did not have enough money to make the repairs.It was not only Sadapal who was affected but his neighbours, too. Jaya Govender said when it rained they were knee-deep in water. He had not received help from the municipality either, and said the water had caused about R5 000 in damage to his home. In response, Tozi Mthethwa, eThekwini Municipality spokesperson, said: As a caring city, eThekwini Municipality has a dedicated team of staff members who strive to provide superior service to all city residents. Service delivery remains our key priority. The matter was referred to the relevant unit for urgent investigation. The outcome of the investigation will determine the necessary action to be taken. The municipality was asked when the investigation had begun and when it would be completed. She said these details would be discussed with Sadapal.Daily News