Durban - Tributes are pouring in on social media for 23-year-old Raymond Pearson, whose body washed up on Suncoast beach two days after he dived off North Pier.Pearson and a friend had gone to the beach on Tuesday and wanted to jump off the pier into the sea.Pearson and Ryan Agnew jumped into the water, but because of the current and high tide, it was difficult for them to swim back to shore, said Pearson s friend, Jasmine Allan. Ryan managed to swim to shore, but when he looked back at the water, he could not see Raymond. They rushed to call the police. For the rest of that evening, the SAPS search and rescue team had divers and boats searching for his body, she said. Because of bad light, the search was called off for the day. Divers continued their search the next day, but could not find his body.On Friday afternoon, police phoned Pearson s family to say his body had washed up on the beachfront area in front of Suncoast Casino.Jason Pearson told the Daily News: His mother worked for us and has been part of our family for the past 25 years. My parents took Raymond in and raised us together. We were best friends. Although his surname was Mbodia, he preferred to take on our surname. He followed in my father s footsteps and went into real estate. He was starting to do well, said Jason.He said the family was slowly coming to terms with what he called a terrible reality . I am relieved his body was recovered. I think we all needed the closure, especially me - regardless of how awful it was identifying his body, it had to be done, said Jason. A day after Pearson went missing, a large crowd gathered at the spot from where he had jumped.Allan said: It was overwhelming to see the crowd of friends and family who gathered at the beach. He had touched so many people s lives and they re devastated at his passing. We all came with flowers for him. The flowers were later scattered into the ocean. The guys also wrote on a rugby ball and kicked it into the sea. He had such big dreams and planned to achieve so much. It saddens us that he now no longer has the chance to do so, she said. Jason said funeral plans had not been made yet. He said Pearson s mother would like to bury him in the Eastern Cape alongside his father and sister. A bank account would be opened on Monday to help with funding towards the funeral. A memorial service for Pearson s friends and family is expected to take place in Durban this week. Daily News