Durban - Community sports fields around eThekwini are lying in ruins, with some being occupied by vagrants and whoonga addicts.Some people are blaming this on the new political dispensation which favours majority rule. However, the eThekwini municipality has rubbished the sentiment that democracy is to blame for the current state of these facilities. Janus Horn, acting chairperson of Berea Lawn Tennis Club, said sports clubs used to be a way of life for many communities in the 1970s, ’80s and ’90s, but many things have changed over the years. “I recall growing up next to the tennis courts at Mandene Park, holding a tennis racket at the age of four. Children used to play soccer, tennis, rounders and just ran all over the place, while parents played tennis and had a beer afterwards.” Horn said tennis, soccer, running, squash and bowls were played at Mandene Park. “My dad was the chairperson of the tennis section and later became the chairperson of the main club. My sister, Liezel Huber, is ranked number one in the world in Women’s Doubles Tennis, thanks to the park,” he said.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Huber is a South African-American tennis player who represents America internationally. “We need the municipality to take a more active role in assisting clubs. It is becoming tougher and tougher for my club to survive. Clubs are given strict instructions by the municipality on what they are allowed to do.” Some fields said to be in disrepair are Montclair Park, where Ramblers used to play, Bert Taylor Park in Blackburn Road in Redhill and Umbilo Congella Club in Umbilo, among others. Enzo Coppola, a soccer coach, said the municipality’s decision to take away long-term leases at the sporting facilities has had a detrimental effect. He said the fields had been left to deteriorate. The only people who frequent these facilities, said Coppola, are vagrants and criminals who use them as their homes. “This is affecting every community close to the facilities. It would seem that these facilities are neglected because they were established before 1994, and that is short-sightedness on the part of the municipality,” Coppola said. Thembinkosi Ngcobo, the eThekwini municipality’s head of Parks and Recreation, rubbished this notion. “We need to understand the history behind these facilities. Before 1994, most of these facilities were exclusive to white people. Due to the evolution of time they lacked membership and funding. They had arrangements with the pre-1994 government where leases of up to 30 years or more were in place. “As the funds ran dry, some clubs abandoned the facilities without even informing us. The notion that the facilities were abandoned after 1994 is not true. We have a working plan in place to ensure that everyone is involved in all sorts of sporting activities around them,” Ngcobo said. He said it was the individual club’s decision to abandon its facilities instead of working towards integrating clubs that were left out before the new dispensation. He said that in a meeting on social cohesion when Mike Sutcliffe was still city manager, a call was made for the integration of all sporting clubs around eThekwini. “We further said to these people: host events such as weddings at your respective facilities as a way of recouping money spent on maintaining the facilities. The result was an exodus of clubs from the facilities. We have - I stand to be corrected - between 80 and 100 sports clubs around eThekwini, but very few of them are viable. We lose about R60million a year through vandalism at these facilities.” He said the municipality had a road map which was seeking to achieve social cohesion through mass participation in sport. “Lahee Park in Pinetown will be converted into a medical centre for athletes and there will be a conference centre. We have made progress on this project, having had the Princess of Monaco showing interest in it. They have their office in Johannesburg but there are indications that they would like to have offices here once the project is completed,” Ngcobo said. The Umbilo Congella Sports Club will be turned into a jazz music studio and conference and recreation centre. Daily News