“We are now getting used to it. It is unfortunate, in my view, because when the constitution has given us certain duties, it has actually said we have a right to decide our internal arrangements and we, again and again, take things out, things which belong to our internal arrangements, we take them to court, it is so unnecessary,” Mbete told journalists at the ANC’s 5th national policy conference in Johannesburg. “It is unnecessary energy and resources that are being used in that exercise. However, people have a democratic right to do it and they do it nonetheless. We hope they will see sense one of these days.” Last month, the Constitutional Court ruled that the question of whether an impending vote of no-confidence in President Jacob Zuma should be held via ­secret ballot was fully in Mbete’s hands as the Speaker. “The United Democratic Movement’s request for a ­motion of no-confidence in the president is remitted to the Speaker for her to make a fresh decision,” Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng ruled. The application to the Constitutional Court came from the UDM, prompted by Zuma’s controversial removal of former finance minister Pravin Gordhan and his deputy, Mcebisi Jonas. The secret ballot case is one of the many attempts by opposition parties and civic organisations to have Zuma removed from office. Mbete had argued that she was under no obligation to set a secret vote, and that such decision was up to the National Assembly members - an argument rejected by the Constitutional Court judges. Opposition parties, including the ACDP, African People’s Convention (APC), Cope, DA, EFF and the IFP supported the application. Judge Mogoeng ordered that Mbete and Zuma pay the parties’ legal costs. Mbete has, “following further consultations with political parties in Parliament and the executive”, decided to change the date for the debate on the motion of no-confidence in the president from August 3 to August 8. Meanwhile, the DA, referring to the secret ballot on the motion of no-confidence yesterday,  said Mbete was plainly putting the ruling party before the good of Parliament and the country. She reportedly said MPs had an obligation to toe the party line. “Mbete’s comments show that, when faced with the inherent conflict of her role as chairperson of the ANC and Speaker of the National Assembly, she does not hesitate to put party before Parliament,” DA chief whip John Steen­huisen said. “It is alarming that Mbete feels free to speak so candidly about the ‘obligations’ of ANC MPs precisely when she is called upon to apply her mind and decide on the matter of the secret ballot.” He was referring to Mbete telling reporters at the ANC policy conference: “In as far as the question of secret or not ­secret (ballot), I think individuals can think whichever way they want to, but whereas a member who was sent to Parliament by a political party, you owe it to that party to take a position as guided by it.” Steenhuisen noted that in the Constitutional Court’s ruling, Judge Mogoeng said: “Members of the ruling party are also at liberty to vote in a way that does not always have to be predetermined by their parties.” Judge Mogoeng had, however, remarked that each member of Parliament must “be able to do what would in reality advance our constitutional project of improving the lives of all citizens”. Steenhuisen said Mbete should weigh her words responsibly, as she not only had the power to decide whether or not to allow a secret ballot, but would probably preside over the debate. “As Judge Mogoeng rightly notes, ‘accountability is necessitated by the reality that constitutional office-bearers occupy their positions of authority on behalf of and for the common good of all the people’,” Steenhuisen pointed out. African News Agency