“They are amenable to the suggestion,” said Rob Goulden, spokesperson for the Fairway Residents Association, on Tuesday. The consortium told Goulden that it was planning an exclusive upmarket gated residential estate, which the association “would most certainly not support”. The Durban Country Club (DCC) has sold its Beachwood Golf Course in Durban North to Beachwood Investments (Pty) Ltd, a consortium comprising a group of businessmen and a property developer. The price tag for the prime sea-facing site was R95million, with an upfront payment of R9.5m, with the balance payable on transfer of the property, expected to be about October. The club will be able to lease the golf course for R100 a year for three years, although the owners could cancel this after a written notice is given if their planning approvals are received sooner than expected. The DCC announced its decision to sell its Beachwood course last year. With falling membership and rising maintenance costs, the club was facing financial challenges. In a bid to raise funds, the DCC Trust had earlier successfully submitted a rezoning application to the eThekwini Municipality for  2.45 hectares of land around the Beachwood clubhouse, the plan being to develop 36 residential maisonettes. The motivation for the development was that the proceeds from the sale of this portion of land would help the DCC maintain both its courses and clubhouses in excellent condition. The Fairway Residents Association appealed the rezoning approval, and a tribunal is set to consider the appeal on July 25. In the meantime, the DCC has sold the entire golf course to Beachwood Investments. If the council’s approval for the 2.45ha is upheld, the new owners will inherit the rezoning decision, although it is only for the 2.45ha portion and too small for their own plans. There were initially four potential buyers for Beachwood, one being from a Special Purpose Vehicle, comprising some members of the Fairway Residents Association and some members of the DCC. Their proposal - eventually submitted as an amended joint offer with another bidder with a similar idea - envisaged the golf course staying exactly as it is now. It further proposed a medium-size world-class seven-star resort in the “central spine” of the existing clubhouse along with the associated outbuildings and parking lot. A three-phased payment was offered, which would have given the DCC R25m more than it will receive from Beachwood Investments. The offer was for an immediate R40m payment, another R40m when rezoning approval was received for the “central spine”, with the R40m balance payable on completion of the development. The chief executive of the DCC, Pascale van Mais, has said that Beachwood was sold after “due consideration” of all the tenders and in the best interests of the club. Daily News