Delegates, speakers and the media had waited on June 19 for the conference to begin, when Ngcobo announced the postponement. Sipho Nzuza, eThekwini municipal manager, had then instructed Musa Gumede, deputy city manager for community and emergency services, to investigate the matter. However, two weeks later the investigation still drags on leaving Heinz de Boer, the DA’s Executive Committee (Exco) member, doubtful the report would see the light of day. “I don’t think we’ll ever see a report on that because no reports come to Exco without the mayor’s approval and I think the decision not to hold that Social Cohesion Conference was a political one.” With Ngcobo being heavily involved in the uMhlanga branch of the ANC, there have been suggestions that he was untouchable, but De Boer downplayed that notion. “We have always had a problem with him holding such a senior position within the municipality and also being so heavily involved in politics, but I don’t think he is untouchable,” De Boer said. He said this was because the political landscape in the city had changed significantly with Zandile Gumede now mayor. “I wish that Ngcobo would spend more time concentrating on service delivery issues like the cutting of grass and verges, parks and gardens instead of all these fancy events that he likes having so much,” said De Boer. Mdu Nkosi, an IFP Exco representative, said they were waiting to hear from Nzuza because opposition parties were told that the mayor was unavailable when they raised concerns at the last Exco meeting. “We asked the municipal manager to investigate as the accounting officer, but what is troubling us is that council is in recess at the moment, but we will demand answers once council returns,” Nkosi said. Nzuza told the Daily News that Gumede had appointed a person to head  the inquiry. “I have also referred the matter to the city’s Integrity and Investigations Unit and the auditor to check what the cause of the whole thing was and what are the losses, if 
any, suffered by the council,” Nzuza said. He was unsure how long the process would take, as it would depend on those investigating, but it had to be quick because it was an internal matter. “We shouldn’t waste a lot of time on this,” Nzuza said. He said Ngcobo was still at work and they could not put him off until the process was completed. “The process will determine whether there is any cause for him to be suspended, but parallel to that the integrity unit is carrying on with the process of starting an investigation,” he said. Daily News