DURBAN - The ANC’s intention to reduce the size of its National Executive Committee (NEC) and calls for a second deputy president and secretary-general have been laughed off as clutching at straws by political analysts.
Launching the party’s policy documents for discussion in March, Jeff Radebe, ANC NEC member, said the party’s papers proposed a reduction in the NEC’s numbers and to limit the number of NEC members serving in government. The call was reiterated by members of the ANC’s ward 73 branch in Chatsworth last week, who labelled the NEC as “too large and difficult to manage”. Protas Madlala, a political analyst, said having two deputy presidents, two secretaries-generals and reducing the NEC would not solve the problems within the ruling party. “It illustrates a bankruptcy of ideas and lack of vision. They’re at their wits’ end because they don’t want to consult people who can advise them. They don’t want to listen to other views so they come up with all this rubbish,” Madlala said. He said the proposed NEC reduction and the two deputy presidents and secretaries-generals were not going to help fight the Guptas and corruption. “They should not take us for a ride,” Madlala said. The ANC was running away from the real internal problems it was facing. Reducing or increasing numbers within its senior leadership would not help, Madlala said. The party was now grasping at straws as it knew what the real problem was. Madlala said the party’s rhetoric on radical economic transformation and social cohesion, which they could not define, led to people forgetting about realities such as the unemployment of youth. He said if the ANC had talked of doing away with provincial governments, which were a huge cost to South Africans, it would be worth listening to. Madlala said the most important arms of government were the national government, which deals with issuing policies and laws, and the local government which implemented those policies and laws. He said having only these two spheres of government would be effective. Edwin Mkhize, Cosatu KZN provincial secretary, said they were not privy to the rationale behind the proposed organisational changes. “We know that in the ANC there is a discussion on the issue of organisational renewal so that the organisation can be able to face the current challenges, but it’s important that whatever decision is taken there be an understanding of the rationale behind it,” said Mkhize. He said proposals for the reduction of the NEC may have been influenced by the Morogoro Conference of 1969, a time when there were challenges facing the organisation. Among the decisions was one to reduce the NEC. “I’m not saying this stems from that, but I’m just saying that’s one incident I remember because there have been debates that there should be a consultative conference similar to the Morogoro Conference, but it will be important to understand what the rationale is,” Mkhize said. He said decisions such as these could sometimes be taken objectively with the thought of increasing organisational capacity or such decisions could also be taken to accommodate certain individuals in positions. “Sometimes when you go to the conferences you’ll find that there is a battle. Since there are nine provinces in the country, sometimes there is battle between the provinces on individuals they want to bring and you find provinces contesting that space,” Mkhize said. The ANC was not compelled to make such decisions after engaging other stakeholders, but Cosatu was available to engage with the ruling party on the issue as it had it own views. Bheki Mngomezulu, a political analyst, said on one hand having two deputy presidents and two deputy secretaries-generals could help because the party was “evidently divided” from the top to the branches. Daily News