Thanduxolo Sabelo, ANCYL provincial secretary, said the SACP was not genuine when its leaders talked about getting inferior treatment from their ANC counterparts. It had been reported that the SACP delegates at its national congress in Gauteng on Saturday called for an implementation of its 2007 congress decision to contest for state power on its own. Blade Nzimande, SACP secretary-general, told delegates the party was frustrated by the dysfunctionality of the alliance, which was not engaging it as equal partners. “The only reason the SACP would consider leaving the alliance is because they might not be comfortable with who might get elected in December, but it is not genuine concerns raised by the SACP that the ANC has not addressed,” said Sabelo. In the run-up to the ANC elective conference in December, the SACP and Cosatu have pledged support for deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa as the next president. This is against the ANCYL, ANC Women’s League and uMkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans’ support for former AU Commission chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma for the same position. Belongs Sabelo said if the SACP leaves the alliance, “they (SACP leaders) would have to leave the government, because the government belongs to the ANC”. A number of SACP leaders, including Nzimande, who is the Minister of Higher Education, hold senior positions in the national, provincial and local government spheres. Themba Mthembu, its provincial secretary, is the agriculture and rural development MEC. Sabelo said they would prefer the SACP continue in the alliance. Political analyst Bheki Mngomezulu said the SACP’s talk of leaving the alliance was merely threats to “test the ­waters. They can leave, but I don’t think they have the numbers to stand alone. “They know that the ANC have internal problems and are disjointed, and they are using the situation to check that in the event they leave, how much chances they have.” Mngomezulu said the SACP was counting on people with dual membership - SACP and ANC - to vote with the SACP out of disgruntlement. “But between now and 2019 if the situation normalises, the SACP would lose people who have dual membership and ordinary people who would have voted for the SACP out of anger. “Once anger subsides and people sit down to reason, they would realise that their political future is with the ANC rather than the SACP, whose future they are not sure of,” he said. He said the ANC should fight to keep the alliance intact because it might lose support if the SACP breaks away. Political analyst Adam Habib said the ANC should not take SACP threats of leaving lightly, because Cosatu was also likely to leave. Daily News