However, some metered-taxi owners in Durban on Thursday said government had acted too late as many of them were on the brink of shutting down. On Wednesday, Transport Minister Joe Maswanganyi and Police Minister Fikile Mbalula met metered-taxi operators and Uber drivers in Johannesburg to discuss possible interventions. The ministers said government was putting final touches to the National Land Transport Act Amendment Bill, which is currently before Parliament. According to the bill, no public transport operator should operate without a permit. It would also clarify regulations on e-hailing public transport services such as Uber. Tension between the two groups escalated last month when a Pretoria Uber driver’s car was set alight. The driver died on Monday as a result of his injuries. Metered-taxi operators have accused Uber of taking away their business. Peter Lehman, a Mozzie Cabs general manager and owner, said the metered-taxi operators had predicted in 2013 that Uber would put them out of business. They had approached the Department of Transport to ask it to regulate Uber. He said he would be lucky if his business survived until December because he could no longer keep up with expenses. Lehman said the only hope for the traditional metered taxi to survive was for the government to intervene and force Uber to raise its tariff from R7 a kilometre to at least R10 for them to compete. “Uber has caused massive damage to the traditional metered-taxi business in just four years of its existence,” he said. Should he close his business, he said about 120 people would be out of work. Another struggling metered-taxi owner, Deon Moonsamy, said he was not making enough profit to make the loan repayments on his 19 vehicles. He said that while he made between R400 and R900 a week on each taxi, his repayment for each of his Toyota Avanzas was R5 600 excluding the R1 000 insurance each month. Monique Thompson, Uber South Africa spokesperson, said they had been engaging with policymakers on route licensing for driver-partners using the technology app since Uber launched in South Africa in 2013. “We are happy to hear the ministers’ commitment toward the National Land Transport Amendment bill. Uber is and always has been pro-smart regulator,” she said. She said their driver-partners using the Uber app had completed requisite steps in applying for the operating licences under the National Land Transport Act. Kwanele Ncalane, provincial transport spokesperson, said that although metered-taxi operators in KZN had tabled their concerns over Uber, the matter was being handled nationally. “We are impressed by the manner in which the matter was handled in the province - peacefully and with patience.” Daily News