DURBAN - The Prevention of Illegal Eviction Act was riddled with loopholes that were used by people to illegally occupy vacant land, the KwaZulu-Natal branch of the South African Local Government Association (Salga) said on Tuesday. The matter, according to Mluleki Ndobe, Salga s provincial chairperson, was discussed at the national and provincial Salga conferences last month, and was also expected to take centre stage today at the ANC s national policy conference during one of the plenary sessions on land issues.The act sets out to prevent arbitrary evictions. According to the constitution, no one may be evicted from their home or have their home demolished without an order of the court made after considering all the circumstances. The act sets out the procedure to be followed in the case of such evictions. This is not good. As we are attending the policy conference, we have already requested our National Executive Committee to engage with the minister on the act. It gives both the provincial and national government, including the private sector, some difficulty in dealing with some of the illegal land occupation cases. We are hoping that something will come out of the plenary session on the land issue regarding this act, because it is not only a danger to government, but also to the people who have been on the waiting list for houses, Ndobe said.The act also protected tenants in rental properties, but the main concern were people who invaded private land, he said.Mbulelo Baloyi, the provincial Department of Human Settlements spokesperson, said Salga s stance on the act was reasonable. He said land invaders used the act to trespass on public land and set up shacks. When people are found to have occupied land illegally, the act stipulates that those people must be given priority in shelter allocation and this is not fair to those who have been on the waiting list for housing allocation. Projects like Cornubia (north of Durban) end up accommodating these people who have broken the law in the first place at the expense of those who have been waiting patiently, Baloyi said. Thapelo Mohapi, Abahlali Basemjondolo general secretary, said: Even if the municipalities and Salga call for amendments or the abolishment of the act, we are confident that they won t win in that quest. Why destroy something that protects people who occupy land not for business, but to build homes for their families? We have noted the illegal evictions that have been carried out in various parts of the province and we went to court last week and got an interdict to prevent the continuation of these evictions, Mohapi said.