If the “Matric” Examinations could be likened to a “battle” of some kind, perhaps a “battle of wits” between pupils and examiners, then the “Commander-in-Chief” (Education MEC), leading the pupils, has blown the final countdown horn, calling his troops to order. In motivating his troops, his words are both noble and to the point, aimed at arousing their determination and resolve to win. “There are less than 100 days”, he says, and “There is no time for games. This is the last mile.”  Indeed a stirring call to arms. The other contenders in this battle of wits are the examiners. They have, no doubt, over many months of painstaking planning, loaded their arsenals with balanced and thought-provoking questions. However, this upcoming battle of minds differs in some ways from any other conventional battle. First, if there are any casualties or fatalities, those will only be on the side of the pupils and not the battle-experienced examiners. Second, bearing in mind the vast inequalities that prevail in KZN, our Grade 12 pupils are likely to receive the MEC’s message of exhortation in very different ways in various areas. While some may be optimally “wound up” for the examination challenges and the exciting possibilities ahead, others may be at some or other level of desperation, anxious or indeed panic-stricken. This puts the spotlight on the possibility of some pupils being driven to cheat in the examination room. Undertaking research into the dynamics and psychology of cheating would be useful and highly edifying. Nonetheless, on the basis of hundreds of interviews and therapeutic interactions with pupils, the following overall picture emerges around this phenomenon: Pupils who are even reasonably well-prepared and confident are so busy in the examination - understanding and interpreting questions and responding - that for them, the temptation of copying, cheating or colluding, with all its attendant risks and stresses, is really no temptation at all. Pupils who are very well-prepared are eager to spend every second on engaging in a written dialogue with the examiner. Pupils who are tempted indicated that their poor preparation, understanding and little confidence in the subject led them to “make some plan” to cheat. But even for pupils in the third category, and perhaps especially for them, cheating was a stressful, tense and nerve-racking experience. It was driven in some ways by the same desperation that may drive a drowning man to clutch at a passing jellyfish. Not only does he drown, but endures great pain from the stings of the jellyfish before he does. There is no joy in cheating for these ill-equipped pupils, who arguably have been betrayed by the very system  entrusted to teach, train and develop them properly and consistently from at least Grade 1 for the “big stage and grand finale” of the matric examinations. Even if a pupil does not get caught in the examination or test room itself, he/she will still have no real joy. The sheer agony and stress of worrying oneself sick about being caught out at the marking centre will kill any joy. The possibility of anxiety-related self-harm is very real. The counter argument may be that “some pupils just don’t care”. Even if this applies in some cases, it again supports the hypothesis of the education system having “betrayed” the pupil to the point of him/her having a “do or die” attitude. If a word of advice could be offered to pupils, it may go as follows: “Dear pupil, “The examination is like a written talk that the examiner is having with you. He or she is not after you to get you or to make you fail. “You already have a great deal of knowledge, and if you use the remaining days to prepare as well as you can, it’s likely that you may enjoy the examinations in the subjects you are taking. Give it your best shot. “If you don’t do as well as you would have liked, you could apply to have your paper remarked or rechecked. “If you’ve failed, remember we have all failed in something at some stage in our lives. Failure is nothing to be ashamed of. Try again. “Never, never be tempted to cheat, copy or collude. The stress is extremely dangerous for your wellbeing. You will get caught, either in the examination room or marking centre. That will give you a bad record and possibly ruin your future. “Use your time wisely and give it your best shot. No one can ask more of you. “If you feel overwhelmed, stressed, and anxious or worried before or after the examinations, don’t keep those feelings a secret. Discuss them urgently with someone you trust.” *  Govender is Educational Psychologist. Former Teacher; Circuit Manager and Head of Special Educations Needs Services (SNES) Daily News