DURBN -Xenophobic tension could flare up again if grievances of township and rural businesses are not dealt with. This was according to the Ugu Association of Businesses yesterday at the Competition Commission s hearing into the retail market. The Durban hearings were the third leg of the commission s travels around the country, with previous sessions held in the Western Cape and Gauteng. One of the focal points of the hearings is to look at the impact big supermarket retailers have on townships and rural areas. William Mcoyi, of the Ugu Association of Business, said: The issue of xenophobia is not over - it is a sleeping giant. He said they did not want the tension to rise again, but if foreign shop owners continued to push out local spaza and store owners from townships, then tensions could flare up. Mcoyi was part of a delegation of business associations which spoke at the hearing. Thanduxolo Ncane, Ugu Association of Business chairperson, said foreigners would buy in bulk, whereas local business people would buy individually, putting them at a disadvantage. The association conducted a study more than two years ago and found they were being out-priced by foreign shop owners and that the treatment they received at wholesalers was different as foreigners were given preference. Ncane said: We are not happy at the way our people are being treated. The association s Themba Zondi said government did not strictly apply business laws to foreign nationals as they were allowed to live in their shops, whereas locals would be punished if they did the same.But foreign national business people were not the only problem they faced. Retail chains and big supermarkets were also criticised. Mcoyi said that although radical economic transformation was intended to help black people, big businesses were engaged in economic exploitation. He said the big retail stores often set up businesses in shopping malls in townships and near rural areas to the detriment of small, medium and micro-sized enterprises (SMMEs). He said big companies which sold the majority of their goods to black people had very few black people working in their offices.The KwaZulu-Natal Youth Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KZNCCI) also took issue with supermarket chains.Its president, William Zenzile, said the problems started in 1994. Although the entry of these businesses into the township market was a bonus for consumers price-wise, it was a death sentence for spaza shops as they would be out-priced by the big retailers, which he described as the Big Four . R500 billion of the market being controlled by four groups is a problem. When asked which companies formed the Big Four , he said Shoprite Group, Spar Group, Woolworths and Pick * Pay. Vusi Kunene, special adviser to the KZNCCI, said: The township economy is dead. He said the buying power of big companies crushed any SMMEs that dared try to compete with them, and that this was sad as the retail sector formed the fourth-largest contributor to the country s GDP and employed 22% of South Africa s workforce. He said the four groups controlled everything in the value chain, which did not give SMMEs a chance. They are the referee and the player, Kunene said. There is no healthy competition out there that helps people to grow, Zenzile said. Spar is expected to make submissions on Friday, the final day of the Durban hearings.Daily News