DURBAN - Police in Limpopo could not read a note written in Afrikaans and instead felt Johanna Pavier was guilty of some kind of wrongdoing. Without seeking a translation, they arrested the 61-year-old on the spot.She was arrested for illegally dealing in second-hand goods, but nothing came of the charges against her.The subsequent insensitive and cruel treatment of the Louis Trichardt woman by the police will now cost the taxpayer R160000.Pavier claimed R450000 in damages from the police in the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria after her ordeal on February 16, 2012.Apart from the police manhandling her, they were not entitled to arrest her on the minor charge, which only carried an admission of guilt fine as a penalty.Pavier s problems started when she sold some scrap metal to a scrapyard. The police wanted to see her permit and she showed them a note from her employer, which stated that she was entitled to sell the goods on his behalf.The elderly woman, who suffers from diabetes, collapsed inside the police station and was taken to hospital. When she regained consciousness her arm was handcuffed to the hospital bed.One of the officers told her she must enjoy her time in hospital as she was going to be taken to a cell the following day where she was going to be raped by fellow inmates. Pavier said she was terrified at the prospect.She later asked to go to the toilet and one of the officers who was guarding her dragged her by her cuffs to the toilet. She felt humiliated and degraded as she also had no privacy.DraggedShe was later taken to the police van that was going to take her back to the police station. The woman asked for help to get into the van, but an officer told her I do not assist rubbish . He slammed the door against her body after he handcuffed her to the back of the van. Pavier said the police then drove at high speed through potholes while she was thrown around in the back of the van.The officers took great joy in her pain and anguish, she said. During the journey she managed to make a video clip on her cellphone of her ordeal which was handed to court. The court noted that she appeared severely distressed. It was said that her face tells it all . Acting Judge N Nkosi said the conduct of the police was extremely cruel, given the woman s age and her medical condition. According to the judge, the police were never empowered to have arrested her in the first place. He also commented that none of the police challenged the inhumane treatment meted out to her. In ordering that she receive R160000 in compensation he said the police had an absolute disregard for her rights.Daily News