The road, Centre Place, an offshoot from Centre Road, was closed because of the impending construction of a school for children with disabilities. One resident, Lalchand Munasur, said: “The residents are very cross. This is poor planning by the department.” Munasur said his family had been living there for 100 years and all they wanted was  to get a proper road. He said they did not mind the building of the school, but felt the community’s needs should have also been considered. The road closure has meant that they have to park their cars and walk hundreds of metres to their homes. He said they hoped the issue would be amicably resolved, but if it was not, they would take the matter to court. Another resident, who asked not to be named, said the closure of the road had had a negative effect on her trucking business. The woman, who has lived there for 20 years, described their inability to access their home as “hurtful”. She said they had not been able to conduct their trucking business properly as their mechanic would do diagnostics on trucks from their home. “The trucks have been parked all over the place,” she said. “This can lead to their being stolen or being stripped for parts. What I don’t understand is how someone could do this without consulting us,” she said. Solutions to their predicament have not been offered. However, Public Works spokesperson Mbulelo Baloyi said his department, the local councillor, the contractor and the community liaison officer  had consulted the community about the developments and subsequent changes. He referred to Centre Place as being an illegal thoroughfare residents had made through department property and suggested they instead use Ringside Place to get to their homes. Baloyi said the land on which the school was to be built was owned by the Department of Education and earmarked as a facility for disabled pupils. “The community was made aware well in advance of the impending construction  of the school and the closure of their makeshift thoroughfare,” said Baloyi. He added that there would be further discussions with the community about not using the site as a thoroughfare. Munasur, who explained that many of their properties were extremely difficult to access from Ringside Place because of their steep entrances, said they would meet all the relevant stakeholders soon. Daily News