The policy has always been in place, but has not been strictly enforced. Because of the recent spate of robberies by cellphone and jewellery gangs targeting malls countrywide, Business Against Crime suggested malls should start doing so. Naeem Rahiman, Business Against Crime spokesperson, said the proposal was suggested to shopping malls. Rahiman said this would help to ensure that CCTV cameras captured clear images of all people entering the malls. “Most shopping malls have welcomed the idea and if all goes well, the policy would be enforced soon. This is not a new policy; it has always been there, but shopping malls were never strict about it. Generally criminals wear caps and hoodies to hide their faces from the cameras.” He said during recent meetings with members of the provincial task team, appointed to investigate the recent mall robberies, police had expressed concerns about the lack of good-quality CCTV footage evidence to assist in their investigations.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Is putting a cap on a mall crime? Video: Thobeka Ngema Cameras “The cameras are positioned in such a way that they capture (images) from above and if a person is wearing a hoodie, hat or a cap, the image is not clear,” he said. The Daily News spoke to mall patrons to get their reaction to shopping centres being stricter on this policy and many of them reacted positively. Waleed Ryan, a shopper at Westwood Mall, said he had no problem with the policy because it addressed the crime problem. He said he usually wore a cap to hide head scars, but if the policy prohibited him from doing so, then he would not have a problem taking it off. Ian Lona, who was wearing a red hoodie jacket that matched his cap at Musgrave Centre, said if he was asked to take off his cap or hoodie, it would not be a problem. Adriel Joshua said a cap for him was not a fashion statement, but he wore it to hide his untidy hair. Joshua was at Westwood Mall with his friend to buy lunch on Monday. “I do not have time to fix my hair in the morning on my way to campus. I just push my hair backwards and put my cap on and I am sorted.” Deliza Koya said he supported the idea as a safety measure that would make cameras capture a clear image of all shoppers. “I wear a cap to match my outfit all the time. It’s an accessory that I would not mind removing when entering a zone where caps are not allowed,” he said. Another shopper, Phakamani Sibiya, who said he only took his cap off when sleeping, suggested that at least shoppers should be made to wear a cap backwards in order to expose their face, but not be forced to take it off. “I wear a cap to hide my baldness. I wouldn’t want the ladies at the mall to see it; that is why I would be extremely offended by being forced to take my cap off,” he said. Jeff Reddy said he would never be caught without his cap on and would rather stay away from a place where caps were not allowed. “I would rather shop online. I have gotten so used to wearing a cap that I feel and look weird without one,” said Reddy. Rahiman said those who opposed the policy would have to choose what was more important - their caps and hoodies or ensuring their safety. Daily News