The publishers said they withdrew the book, titled Mandela’s Last Years, out of respect for the statesman’s family. "Penguin Random House South Africa (PRHSA) accepted Mandela’s Last Years for publication after the author Vejay Ramlakan advised the publisher he had been requested by Mr Mandela’s family to publish the book. The book was meant to portray Nelson Mandela’s courage and strength until the very end of his life, and was in no way intended to be disrespectful. However, given the statements from family members, we have decided to withdraw the book.’’ A former SA National Defence Force (SANDF) surgeon-general, Ramlakan was tasked with overseeing Mandela’s health care when the former president was admitted to hospital in 2013. Ramlakan has said he stood by every word in the book, adding he had the consent of the family to go ahead and pen the book. PRHSA said he had told them he even handed the script of the book to a Mandela family member. In the book released this month, Ramlakan stated it was not Mandela’s widow Graça Machel who was by his side when he drew his last breath, but his former wife, Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. The book further revealed previously undiclosed details of Mandela’s health condition, including stating that Mandela had stopped breathing on a certain night in June, at least six months before the announcement of the death in December 2013. Mandela’s family distanced themselves from the book, with his nephew, Mandla Mandela, threatening legal action against Ramlakan. Mandla said the family and Machel were aggrieved by the book, and further accused Ramlakan of violating Mandela’s privacy entrusted to him as a doctor. In a scathing statement released last week, Machel said: "I condemn Vejay Ramlakan’s book Mandela’s Last Years in the strongest terms. It is an affront to and an assault on the trust and dignity of my late husband, President Nelson Mandela.” The SANDF also distanced itself from the book, adding it did not represent its views and that of the SA Military Health Service. ANA