Durban - An Umbilo pre-school owner, in an effort to minimise incidents of children being knocked over in the street, has painted a pedestrian crossing on Selborne Road.
However, the eThekwini Municipality says the pedestrian crossing is illegal. When one of his pupils broke a leg two years ago, while trying to cross the road Selborne Educare Centre and Boarding owner Ian McMullen said he approached the municipality’s roads department about putting in speed humps. About 90 children aged between two and six cross the road outside his pre-school daily, so McMullen asked for the speed humps to prevent future accidents. His requests, however, apparently fell on deaf ears for two years. Instead, he said, the only attention he received was after he painted a pedestrian crossing there himself. “I could not sit back and do nothing about it. Those children are my responsibility. Last year, I used R1 200 from my own pocket and bought paint and other things to paint my own pedestrian crossing,” said McMullen. He said he took measurements from another speed hump in the area and used these to paint the crossing. “Painting my own pedestrian crossing attracted a lot more attention from the same officials I had been communicating with about the speed humps without success.” Barely a week later a private company contracted to the municipality was sent to remove the pedestrian crossing. “I understand that it’s illegal, but the municipality was not prepared to do anything about it and, when I did something about it to save the children from road accidents, I was told it was illegal,” he said. He said after the pedestrian crossing was removed he had hoped they would come back to do it “legally”, or put in speed humps, but this didn’t happen. He said his security guard, aided by a stop sign, controlled the traffic for children to cross, but it was difficult without a pedestrian crossing sign. McMullen said he had no choice but to paint the pedestrian crossing all over again. “Having a pedestrian crossing is better than having nothing at all. I went ahead and did it to save the lives of children crossing the road,” he said. Again, he said barely a week after he re-painted the crossing, a municipality official apparently approached his security guard and warned him that the pedestrian crossing was illegal and should be removed. McMullen, who has run his pre-school for 27 years, said he suspected that his requests were overlooked because he ran a private education facility. “The neighbouring Port-Natal Skool and Carrington Heights Primary School have speed humps right in front of the school gate,” he said. “Besides the fact that the road is a hotspot for accidents, it is extremely busy in the morning and afternoon with private-school transport and taxis coming to pick up children,” he explained. Mmabatho Tembe, the local ward councillor, said the matter was never reported to her, but promised to take it up at the city council’s next meeting. The lack of speed humps has parents worried. Thembeka Ndlovu, mother of a child attending the pre-school, said speed humps were important as motorists tended to speed on that road. Domestic workers who fetched some of the children also complained that even as adults they were not safe crossing the intersection. The municipality’s senior communications manager Mandla Nsele said the status quo was that private institutions must provide all the infrastructure required for traffic-calming measures and that these should not be funded by the council, especially if the business operated on a site that was not zoned for that activity. Nsele said the matter would be investigated. “Residents are cautioned against painting their own markings on city roads as this could expose them to possible legal claims if an incident occurred on the road.” Daily News