Two of them, a 29-year-old Filipino and his 63-year-old Chinese crew mate, are in St Augustine’s Hospital with burn injuries. The younger fisherman has severe burns to his hands, arms and face, while the older man has a “moderate” injury to his leg, a spokesman for Netcare said last night. Their possessions were destroyed when fire ripped through their Taiwanese trawler, the Hsiang Fuh No 6 on Sunday. The traumatised and lucky-to-be-alive survivors are arranging documentation with various authorities and their countries’ diplomatic staff before being repatriated to the Philippines, Indonesia, Taiwan and Vietnam.  Reports that there had been an explosion on board could only be confirmed once the survivors had been debriefed, a spokesman for the Maritime Rescue Institute said. The South African Maritime Safety Authority, which co-ordinated the rescue effort, has praised the crew of the two recovery ships which responded to a Mayday call for help, saving the lives of the fishermen. Their abandoned and unmanned trawler is still adrift and warnings have gone out to shipping.  Crew aboard the container ship, the Ever Diadem, en route to Durban, spotted the burning ship on Sunday and also saw that the crew were abandoning their doomed vessel on two life rafts about 736km east-north-east of Durban and 496km from the closest shore. The container ship, which was 10km from the burning boat, notified the Maritime Rescue Co-ordinating Centre in Cape Town (MRCC CT) and the centre asked the Ever Diadem to recover the survivors. A Mayday message was relayed for other vessels in the area. Two bulk carriers, Hampton Bay and SBI Antares responded and diverted to the scene. The MRCC CT released the Hampton Bay and the SBI Antares assisted with the rescue. Sixteen crew from the stricken fishing vessel were picked up by the Ever Diadem and the other 14 by the SBI Antares. With two of the fishermen on board the Ever Diadem suffering from burns, the co-ordination 
centre contacted the National Sea Rescue Institute’s Durban duty crew, which contacted the South African Air Force’s 15 Squadron based in Durban.  The NSRI rescue craft Eikos Rescuer II, with a Netcare 911 rescue paramedic and NSRI medics on board, was launched and medical personnel were transferred onto the rescue ship and the most severely injured fisherman was treated for about 40% second-and third-degree burns, said NSRI spokesman Craig Lambinon. He was stabilised while the second, older, patient was treated for injuries to his right knee. Meanwhile, Oryx helicopter pilot Major Wayne McLaren, along with co-pilot Captain Kenny Ntuli, flight engineer Vusi Mabena and Netcare 911 advanced life support paramedics, Konrad Jones, Shaun Paul and his twin Gary, were on their way to recover the injured fishermen.  The rescue ship was about 20km north of King Shaka International Airport and about 16km out at sea when they saw it. The wind was strong and turbulent as the three paramedics were lowered from the helicopter onto the rescue ship. “We were being jolted around, forwards and backwards and the ship was still moving while we were hoisting the patients and paramedics,” McLaren said last night. “But, in the end, everything went off smoothly.” The patients were hoisted into the safety of the helicopter in a rescue basket in two lifts. The fisherman with the most injuries was given medication for the pain, Netcare 911 spokesman Nick Dollman said.  It took 40 minutes to carry out the hoisting operation and just seven minutes to fly the injured men to the helicopter pad at StAugustine’s Hospital. The entire helicopter operation, from the Air Force Base in Durban out to the ship and the return flight to the hospital took just over an hour. While the hospital was unable to give information about their two seafaring patients, the NSRI spokesman said the younger 
fisherman was in a stable, but serious condition, while the older man was stable. Daily News 