This is despite Zizi Kodwa, the ANC spokesperson, telling the Daily News on Wednesday that the SACP deciding to contest the 2019 general elections on its own, would not affect the relationship between the two tripartite alliance partners. Mandla Shange, ANC Youth League spokesperson, on Thursday said if the SACP went through with its 14th national congress resolution to contest the 2019 general elections, the ANC should tell SACP members to resign from their ANC-endorsed government positions. Shange said the SACP’s resolution had rendered trust between the ANC and SACP non-existent. “We can’t be in alliance with people who keep threatening us with contesting us, so we should let this wound bleed once and for all, and we will see how we heal it.” On what the SACP’s resolution now meant for both parties heading to 2019, Shange said: “Our view is that if they’re contesting, they should vacate the positions they have been handed by the ANC, and prepare for the SACP to contest.” If SACP members serving in Parliament on an ANC ticket did not resign from their positions, the ANC should remove all SACP members after the ruling party’s national elective conference in December, he said. Shange added that the planned bilateral meeting between the ANC and SACP would not change the latter’s resolution, because the resolution was a national congress resolution, and the National Executive Committee did not have powers to change it. Shange also said it was not true that the SACP’s 14th national congress resolution was the implementation of their 2007 resolution. “Their resolution was that if Jacob Zuma won the ANC presidency, they would not contest the elections, but if Thabo Mbeki won the race to remain ANC president, they would then contest the 2009 elections. “So to us it is a sign that they don’t have an alliance with the ANC, but they build alliances with certain leaders and individual leaders of the ANC. It’s another thing that shows there is confusion,” Shange said. The SACP always threatened to leave the alliance and contest polls on its own if certain leaders, which the SACP does not support, win leadership positions, Shange said. “That is why we are saying our relationship with them has been disturbed - due to that.” Daily News