Dlamini has drawn public attention in a week that saw former Sassa chief executive  Thokozani Magwaza quitting the agency, in a move described by parties in Parliament as a “push”. The Standing Committee on Public Accounts said it had tough questions to ask Dlamini when she appears in Parliament in August on Sassa matters. One of the questions is the revelation that her daughter had business links with Bhengu, who is the former Sassa head in KwaZulu-Natal. The Department of Social Development has since said the business between Bhengu and Skhumbuzo Mazibuko did not get off the ground. Scopa chairman Themba Godi said they wanted to know how Mazibuko got into business with Bhengu when the former was directly related to the boss of the latter. People in leadership positions had to have a level of conscience, Godi added. This was an ethical question and should be raised in public. “Now that it has been raised in the public domain, it is a matter of interest that it is clarified,” said Godi. It was unjustifiable for a ­senior official in government to be in business with a minister’s daughter or relative. No matter how one looked at it, it did not make sense, said Godi. Scopa has been firm with government officials to be prudent in managing their ­departments. Godi has recently in Parliament called for ministers to stay away from the coffers of departments or entities. He said ministers should also not get involved in operational matters of their departments and agencies. He said yesterday Scopa hoped to get answers from Dlamini. Sassa has been locked in a Constitutional Court case after Dlamini was dragged to court over the social grants crisis in March. This forced the Constitutional Court to extend the Cash Paymaster Systems contract until March next year, when the contract expires. Dlamini has been accused by parties in Parliament of creating the Sassa crisis. They said if she had followed the judgment of the court in 2014, another company would have been appointed to handle the social grants. But Dlamini has defended herself. She said that the companies that were shortlisted in 2015 did not meet the requirements to deliver social grants, and this delayed the process of appointing a new service provider. Daily News