The two biggest provinces, along with Limpopo and Mpumalanga, are reportedly being investigated by Luthuli House for fraudulent membership. The membership numbers of these provinces have been on the decline since the 2012 national general council, when the party’s membership dropped to 769 870, a decline of 450 187. In a statement, provincial ANC spokesperson Mdumiseni Ntuli said they noted the reports of the investigation. However, he said no report had been made available on the auditing of five of their 11 regions. “We call upon anyone with evidence of fake membership to come forward and provide credible details so that appropriate actions can be taken against those involved,” Ntuli said. “The ANC provincial executive committee will institute disciplinary measures against anyone involved in the manipulation of our membership records for selfish ends,” he said. Mlibo Qoboshiyana, the ANC Eastern Cape spokesperson, said they welcomed the investigation. “It is to give credibility to the membership records,” Qoboshiyana said. He also said the ANC allowed members to download membership forms and pay membership fees at the bank into the accounts of their branches. At times, he explained, people delayed submitting forms to the branch secretaries and, as a result, auditors would come across envelopes of forms not on the database provided by the secretaries. Qoboshiyana said at other times recruiters at branch level also did not submit membership forms owing to infighting and gatekeeping. The challenge then centred around co-ordination of the forms before the audit. These were related to poor record keeping. He added that there were instances of people who used bank stamps fraudulently, but it was easy to identify those, which were roughly about 1% of membership forms. “We don’t have large-scale fraud. We do discover membership discrepancies,” Qoboshiyana said. This, he said, was often picked up during audits of branches. Factions aligned with branch leaders also recruited separately and withheld membership forms for consolidation purposes, and this raised red flags during membership audits. “This warrants a strong secretariat, but it is not happening,” Qoboshiyana said. He also said there was a move to encourage members to know each other and to attend branch activities to quell fraudulent membership. Daily News