Intentions to evict and opposing papers have been back and forth in the Durban High Court. The city has plans to build a multimillion-rand sporting facility in place of the stables. The contract was awarded to Hoy Park Management. Saiesha Gopie, spokesperson for the law firm TGiyapersad Incorporated, that is representing Gleneden Trading, said they had uncovered a litany of alleged irregularities in how the contract for the sporting facility was awarded. She said the municipality still had to explain the eviction move but was doing everything to avoid explaining itself. “The new developer for the sporting facility was initially given R70million for the project and the amount was later raised to R700m. We are waiting for the municipality to find the lease agreement with the new developer, but they are stalling,” she said. Martin Meyer, DA ward 27 councillor, said one of the concerns he had raised previously was the lease agreement. “I even put a formal question to council asking for the lease agreement to be made public as it was in the public interest, but then-speaker Logie Naidoo disallowed the question. “I also directly requested then-city manager S’bu Sithole to see the lease and he refused. I received conflicting information from officials whether this lease actually existed. I am not surprised to hear that the city is struggling to find the lease,” Meyer said. He said this showed what he had been saying since 2014 was true: that the whole matter was badly handled by the city manager and was not done in an open and transparent way. “I suspect the whole deal is going to disappear as we are no longer hosting the Commonwealth games and the main role-players from the city’s side are all gone. “I will continue pushing for the facts and will refer the matter to Mpact (the city’s public accounts committee) for investigation.” Phillip Sithole, eThekwini head of business support, tourism and markets, could not be reached for comment. City spokesperson Tozi Mthethwa said a court process was ongoing and she could not comment on the development. “We invite anyone not satisfied with how the city is implementing its tender policies to formally present such information to the city so that it can be investigated,” she said. Daily News