The most recent death was in May when a 7-year-old boy was killed when he was hit by a car while trying to cross the road. Then, two weeks ago, another pupil was seriously injured in another crash. Professor Jennifer Subban orchestrated yesterday’s demonstration. “This is part of the Wright Lead Progamme which trains youth with leadership skills to improve their communities. Today, this is about advocacy to improve safety on Sparks Road because too many children have lost their lives as a result of excessive speed,” she said. The pupils have selected this as one of their service projects for the year. On Wednesday, they petitioned residents to address the high number of deaths on Moses Kotane Road. Subban, formerly of Sydenham and a pupil at Bechet and now living in the US, said pupils planned the placard demonstration on their own. Ward councillor Chris Pappas, who was at the demonstration, said he was glad to see young people standing up. “Under adult supervision there is action being taken. “We know that speed humps cannot be installed but we know there are other speed calming measures that can be placed. We have been trying to get something done for years,” Pappas said. The city classified its roads according to its purpose, he said. Each classification is intended for a different use. “Moses Kotane is classified 3 which means it is meant to carry high volumes as a distributor. Speed humps would reduce capacity by up to 40%. This means the road would be one big traffic jam all the time. “This is why robots or a traffic circle are a better option although we would not say no to humps,” Pappas said. He said that at the last community meeting only the Metro Police attended. “This is despite an open invite to the deputy mayor and other officials. We are thankful to Metro for availing themselves and for the speed trapping operations,” Pappas said. Three petitions were handed over to Pappas who will hand them over to the city manager, mayor and the MEC for Community Safety and Liaison. Daily News