Two months ago, however, she agreed to try an experiment: A non-profit organisation that works in the Ramesh Dutt Colony where she lives painted her tin roof with white reflective paint, to try to reduce the heat. The simple change worked. Through the month of May - usually the hottest time of year with temperatures reaching nearly 45ºC on many days - Meenaben, who goes by one name, has been able to sit in her home and even work, sewing quilts and bed covers. “We used to really suffer from the heat. We could not sit inside, we could not work, people were falling sick,” she said. “This year it has been so much better. The paint brought the temperature down by several degrees and I have been able to sit in my home, do my work.” The reflective paint is an experiment by Ahmedabad-based Mahila Housing Trust (MHT), a non-profit teaching women to be more resilient in 100 slums in five cities. The organisation, which focuses on upgrading and redeveloping slums and helping women secure property rights, is also helping women deal with climate change pressure through techniques such as rainwater harvesting and composting. “They work so hard to improve their lives, their homes. But even one setback from something like flash floods or a heatwave can have a big impact,” said Bharati Bhonsale, a programme manager at MHT. “A flash flood can destroy their belongings, heat stress affects their work and their health. So it’s important they are equipped to manage the effects of climate change,” she said. Increasingly extreme heat is one of the many effects of climate change in India, where a modest 0.5ºC rise in average temperatures over the past 50 years has led to a nearly 150% spike in heat waves. The number of recorded deaths due to heat waves in 2015 - more than 2 400 - was higher than the death toll from any other natural disaster that year, according to government data. Ahmedabad knows first-hand the dangers of extreme heat. A heatwave in 2010 caused more than 1 000 deaths. In 2013 the city adopted a Heat Action Plan that includes a warning system and it works with civil society groups to try to protect the city’s most vulnerable people. MHT also knows the disproportionate effect of climate change on the city’s poorest residents, and is trying to do something about it. It is experimenting with reflective paint, insulated ceilings and modular roofs in homes. These are low-cost options that can bring down indoor temperatures by several degrees. Women are also trained in measures such as using fuel-efficient stoves to reduce reliance on firewood, rainwater harvesting, composting, cleaning stormwater drains and planting shrubs to help prevent flash floods. The trust has installed a warning system in some slums that sounds an alarm during heavy rains so residents can move documents and food to higher spots in case of flooding, Bhonsale said. “For poor women, their home is also their workplace and their storehouse. They are much more sensitised to the impact of climate change, and understand the seriousness of it,” she said. In Ramesh Dutt Colony women have also learned to keep the narrow lanes free of litter and to look for places where rainwater may collect to prevent the spread of mosquito-borne diseases such as malaria. In teaching women about climate change and its effects, Bhonsale often uses a modified version of the children’s board game Snakes and Ladders. Getting a property title or using a solar cooker takes them up a ladder, while losing belongings in a flood or being unable to work because of the heat brings them sliding down on a snake. “They may not understand the science of global warming, but they have first-hand experience of its effects and, with some education and simple solutions, they are better able to tackle it,” Bhonsale said. “They no longer have to say ‘this is how it is, we can do nothing about it’.” Thomson Reuters Foundation