Sfiso Blose, the still very traumatised father, told the Daily News that he had taken the stove to the children’s bedroom because it was extremely cold. “They complained about the cold while they were watching television in the bedroom. “I took the stove into their room to keep them warm. “I then went out to get their mother from the bus stop because it was late in the evening, about 8pm,” he said. He said they believed that a blanket might have fallen and caught alight, causing the children’s bunk bed to burn. The children’s mother, Batho Jeza, apparently took a different route home on Monday night and arrived before Blose to find the children’s bedroom on fire. According to a tenant, Phindani Shezi, who rents an outside room on the property, the children’s mother ran into the room to try to save them. “When I arrived she had already rescued two of the badly burnt children from the room and she was going for the third child,” he said. But it was too late. Two of her children - 8-year-old Smangele and 4-year-old Mlungisi - were already dead. Their 2-year-old brother, Banele, survived as he was sleeping on another bed in the same bedroom. He was treated for smoke inhalation at a local clinic. Their eldest sibling, 11-year-old Thobani, who also shares the bedroom with them, was visiting relatives in the area. The children’s parents were not home yesterday when the Daily News visited. Shezi said they had gone to the mortuary. On Monday night, he initially did not realise the children’s bedroom was on fire. He had smelt something burning but thought it was somewhere else in the area. He also thought the children were with their father in the house because he knew their mother was working late. When he heard someone screaming for help, he rushed out to investigate. The children’s distraught aunt, Fundisiwe Blose, said the children were supposed to visit their grandparents in KwaDukuza in the next few days. “Their mother works shifts and my brother (their father) was to go shopping for their winter clothes before they went for their vacation,” she said. She described him as a loving father who cared deeply for his children. “He probably wanted them to be warm while watching television and had plugged in the stove,” said Shezi. Tryphina Wana, a neighbour, said she rushed towards the sound of people crying next door. She said they tried everything to resuscitate the children before the police and the paramedics arrived. Police spokesperson Thulani Zwane said police had opened an inquest docket and were in the process of investigating. In the past few months, there have been a spate of home fires. Twins aged 6 and their 3-year-old sibling burnt to death at their home in Wyebank recently. Two children died when their house caught alight in Phoenix last month. A four-year-old died in a blaze at a Clare Estate home in April. The child and his two cousins, who managed to escape, were alone in the house during the fire. Daily News