DURBAN - A Department of Education official who has been accused of giving teachers a tongue-lashing this past week, could be investigated for his alleged behaviour, described as racist and aggressive. Outraged teachers have vowed to complain to their unions, while the Department of Education said that if evidence backed up the various allegations, it would not hesitate to take disciplinary action.Bheki Ntuli, the district manager of the uMlazi region (which also covers schools in Durban and beyond) had been addressing English First Language teachers in the wake of the release of the first term s results and the under performance of pupils.Many of the 60 or so teachers who had gathered for the meeting at Durban Primary School in Umbilo Road, were outraged at his abusive attitude. He was arrogant and aggressive and racist, alleged one teacher, who did not want to be named for fear of victimisation.He claimed that Ntuli had said pupils were failing English First Language because teachers did not like black children. People were very upset by this, he said.Ntuli is also said to have told teachers that if pupils marks did not improve, they would be fired. He blamed schools for putting pupils in English First Language classes, when English should be their second language.Another teacher told the Daily News later that pupils and their parents had the right to choose which to take.But Ntuli apparently asked his audience why they blamed the system and instead asked who admitted these pupils. You can t take learners and throw them into the deep end and then not come up with a safety net... Admissions are done by the school, he said.Some 10 teachers listed various challenges they faced in their classrooms, but one teacher said later that Ntuli just shot them down.When a teacher pointed out that his school had a problem with drugs, Ntuli responded by saying that while there was a prevalence of drugs in the country that doesn t mean the issue of drugs justifies the issue of under performance. Some schools were coming up with strategies to counter the drug problem, he told his audience.He wanted to know how the children who had been taking drugs were doing in other subjects. Are they able to get an A in Maths and only take drugs when they are doing English? he is said to have questioned.If teachers were still blaming drugs on their pupils poor performance in the second and third terms results, he would ask school principals why these teachers are still kept at the school when the pupils are passing all other subjects except English. Education was the only sector where under performance was never faced head on. Under performance is like a demon. The pastors will tell you that you have to force the demon to come out, he said.Ntuli wanted to know the names of the teachers, parents and pupils who were under performing.If the list of under performing pupils was long then we need to know if the problem is with the pupils or with the teachers. He was not satisfied with the challenges that had been mentioned at the meeting. I will be coming to your schools to see if all those learners who failed were drug addicts. We will take them for a test. We want to establish exactly what is the cause, he said.Schools were not doing anything extra to help pupils who were struggling, he said.Parents were paying schools to teach their children and on top of that, they were also paying huge amounts for their children to have private tutors. It cannot continue like this. Ntuli pointed out that the country also had a problem of a lack of resources, but said that there were children learning under a tree who still achieved 100% marks. One teacher said afterwards that Ntuli also said they should be grateful they got a salary at the end of the month. He did not hear them complain about that. Instead of motivating teachers, all we got was a tongue lashing. We were left demoralised and feeling worthless. It was a sad day for education. Teachers at her school held a staff meeting the following day and agreed to lodge a complaint with their union.Muzi Mahlambi, Department of Education spokesperson, said that once they had evidence of the allegations, they would take disciplinary action. If true, we distance ourselves from such occurrences. We are governed by the constitution, which has a Bill of Rights. The government subscribes to non-racism, so our employees should not take a platform in the name of the department to make racial utterances. Ntuli did not respond to Daily News questions by the time of publication.Daily News