Saleem Gaffoor, also known as “Niggaz”, 40, a self-confessed retired drug kingpin, survived a second attempt on his life. In a previous attempt two years ago an innocent bystander was killed by the bullets intended for Gaffoor. Police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane said that at about 11am Gaffoor was shot and wounded in a drive-by shooting. He was rushed to hospital by relatives. An eyewitness, who did not want to be named, said a white VW Polo used in the crime had been parked on a street adjacent to Gaffoor’s home in Cardinal Drive, Phoenix, on Wednesday. The car was parked on the pavement from just after 7am. Neighbours thought the two men in the car were waiting for the salon to open for business. As the hours passed, neighbours became anxious about why the car was still parked there. The driver at one stage apparently got out of the car. He was wearing a hooded jacket. The witness said his face was completely covered. He allegedly bought a copy of a newspaper from a tuck shop which he held up in the car to block anyone from seeing him. The passenger remained in the back seat. The eyewitness said that when Gaffoor left his house and drove toward the intersection, stopping at the T-junction, the driver of the Polo was already moving forward toward the junction. According to the witness, the VW Polo stopped in front of Gaffoor’s car, blocking him. The passenger in the back seat fired several rounds at Gaffoor’s car with a rifle before fleeing. Bystanders who saw the shooting rushed to the scene to find Gaffoor in the driver’s seat of the blood-splattered car. Witnesses said they tried to help him. One used a wheel spanner to break the passenger side window to unlock the doors. By then, Gaffoor’s family members had rushed to the scene. They tried moving Gaffoor into the passenger seat, but could only get half his body over. Witnesses said he was bleeding profusely, shivering and not responding to them. A family member got into the driver’s seat and drove Gaffoor to the hospital. Gaffoor’s wife had climbed into the back seat and was crying hysterically. Residents said the incident occurred quickly and that the shooting was over in seconds. They said they were now living in fear as they anticipated possible further shootings. In May 2015, Gaffoor was standing outside his home with an electrician when they were targeted by a drive-by shooting. The electrician, 30-year-old Gengan Moonsamy, died when the bullets struck his head and chest. Gaffoor, who was shot six times, was rushed to hospital. He was shot in the back. The incident is still under investigation. Zwane said a case of attempted murder was opened at Phoenix police station. No arrests have been made and the motive for the shooting is unknown. At the time, his brother, Whadeen, blamed the shooting on a tow-truck disagreement. In 2015, The Post reported that Gaffoor once ruled High Chaparral in Phoenix - a drug and gangster haven. The family could not be reached on Wednesday. Daily News