DURBAN - Whoonga addicts are raiding the ashes of dead people at memorial walls on Durban's South Coast to mix in their drugs to enhance their high. This is according to  Blessed Gwala, IFP spokesman on Community Safety who on Wednesday urged the KwaZulu-Natal government to tackle the scourge of drug abuse gripping the province. Gwala said that addicts in Scottburgh on the South Coast have resorted to human ashes to enhance their high. He said the IFP wanted answers from the Premier of KwaZulu-Natal, Willies Mchunu about what he is doing to eradicate drugs in the province adding that the Durban city centre is infested with whoonga drifters. The former Premier, Senzo Mchunu had placed Willies Mchunu as the leader of a task team that will explore drugs in Berea and surrounding areas, Gwala noted. “In 2014 the former Premier, Senzo Mchunu in his State of the Province Address named the current Premier Willies Mchunu, then the MEC of Community Safety, as a leader of a task team to look into the problem of drugs in Berea and surrounding areas. We want to know from Premier Willies Mchunu how far he has gone in fighting the rise of drug abuse in the province. We question the effectiveness of this task team if it does exist or was it just a smoke screen,” said Gwala. “Near Berea Train Station in Durban, there are whoonga vagrants who have made the railway line their home and when they rob people they escape across the railway tracks. Also, Scottburgh drug users have resorted to plunder ashes from memorial walls to ‘spice up’ their whoonga. This proves that the announcement made by the former Premier was just hogwash,” said Gwala. File picture: Motshwari Mofokeng/ANA Pictures
The IFP was concerned about the safety of tourists and local shoppers are unsafe because of the number of muggings has increased. “We further raised our concerns about the failure by the eThekwini Municipality to address the issue of drug addicts at Berea railway train station. Both tourists and local shoppers in the Durban CBD are not safe as the number of muggings and theft of cellphones and money has increased. Most of the working people walk in the CBD every morning and there is a huge presence of street kids and other vagrants, who are alleged to be smoking whoonga and other drugs. Ordinary citizens are at risk of being robbed on a daily basis,” concluded Mr Gwala. The IFP called on Willies Mchunu and the eThekwini Municipality must act quickly before whoonga addicts damage the reputation of the city and the province. The office of the Premier welcomed the interest shown by IFP in fighting crime it said in a statement.The premier also called upon all leaders of society including political parties to work together to rid KwaZulu-Natal of any form of drug trafficking and drug abuse. "We welcome an interest shown by the IFP in fighting crime. Instead of pointing fingers we call for a united front against any form of crime in this province. We believe that MPL Blessed Gwala and other leaders have an important role to play to strengthen the fight against social ills as he is respected by the community," Ndabezinhle Sibiya, the Premier's spokesman said. "KwaZulu-Natal Premier Willies Mchunu is on record calling upon leaders of society to unite and work together to eradicate social ills from our society.  It is for these reasons that few weeks ago, this province hosted a Social Cohesion and Moral Regeneration Summit in KwaMashu involving NGOs, community leaders, academics, traditional leaders, Members of Parliament across all political party lines. The summit focused on ensuring that there is a one integrated programme aimed at strengthening families and restoration of the moral fiber. We want all leaders to assist in ensuring that families as institutions are strengthened because some of those young stars who are involved in in drug abuse come from broken families," he said. Daily News