Bhekani Dladla and Sipho Masango face charges of assault with grievous bodily harm, corruption and intimidation, while Musawenkosi Khwela faces charges of assault with grievous bodily harm and corruption. Prosecutor Ndoda January opposed bail, arguing it should be denied because of the seriousness of the charges and the safety of the victims. One of the witnesses, Precious Ncobela, was found dead in her bedroom a month after the initial alleged attack. She and her 13-year-old daughter, Nontobeko Vezi, were shot dead. The court on Wednesday heard how Ncobela had scrambled to ensure the policemen were paid the money they allegedly asked for. Testifying in opposition to bail, Phumlani Ngcobo, the investigating officer from the Independent Police Investigative Directorate, said on May 22, the victims were stopped by Dladla and Masango in KwaDabeka. They were in the complainant’s car, a BMW, at the time. “The complainant claimed that while the officers searched the car, the two men were told to lie on the ground. The officers did not find anything in the car and Masango started kicking the complainant. Masango accused the man of hijacking his sister,” Ngcobo testified. “The road where the incident was unfolding was narrow and people were starting to come out of their homes. The officers took the men to an open field in Pinetown where they set their dogs on them. After a while, they asked the men how much they would give them to stop the dogs.” Attack Ngcobo said during the  attack, the officers allegedly asked the victims for R10000. The complainant, said Ngcobo, contacted Ncobela whose fiancé said he could only pay R6000. The second man’s family was allegedly also asked for money. Ngcobo said the officers allegedly called Khwela and told him to meet at “the spot”. “He arrived with his dog and told the men that his dog was new so this would be practice for it,” Ngcobo testified. Khwela allegedly arrived in an unmarked car with his police dog and was in civilian clothing. Ngcobo said the policemen apparently agreed to the R6000. “The money took a while to reflect in Ncobela’s account and the dogs were set on the men again. The officers handed a gun to the complainant and said they were arresting him for being in possession of the gun,” Ngcobo testified. He said the two men were apparently taken to the Pinetown police station where a policeman there said they could not be detained as they were injured. The two men were taken for treatment. Meanwhile, Ncobela was still trying to get the R6000 for the release of the complainant. She withdrew R3000, but said she was waiting for midnight to withdraw the remaining R3000, said Ngcobo. He testified that she had also approached a loan shark for help without success. Her cousin helped raise R2000 from another loan shark and she scrambled to put together R1000 to make the R6000 and told the officers. The policemen apparently told her to do an electronic transfer via e-Wallet. She did so and contacted the officers again. She apparently sent them the PINs and serial numbers, which the policemen allegedly used to withdraw the money. Ngcobo’s testimony had to be cut short because of time constraints and the matter was adjourned until August 7. Daily News