This is according to Zizi Kodwa, ANC national spokesperson, who said the party’s MPs were expected not to break ranks on August 8 during a motion of no-confidence in Zuma, which might end up in a secret ballot should National Assembly speaker Baleka Mbete decide so. After Zuma escaped calls within the ANC to step down, the national executive committee threw its weight behind him and warned its public representatives not to vote with the opposition when the motion was tabled. There are now calls for the MPs to use their conscience and to also follow the constitution when they vote in less than 10 days. Mbete is expected to decide on the method of ballot to use. “President Zuma, whether there is secret ballot or not on August 8, will address the Women’s Day celebrations the following day as the president of the country and as the president of the ANC,” Kodwa said on Thursday. There is a belief in some quarters that some ANC MPs are unhappy with Zuma, and would vote him out if granted the secret ballot. Opposition party members claim to know of some ANC MPs who wished for the ballot to be conducted by secret vote. ANC MP Makhosi Khoza, who faces ill-discipline charges, has openly called on Zuma to step down. She even wrote to Mbete asking her to decide on a secret ballot . She received death threats after she announced she would vote with her conscience. For the motion to pass, 51 ANC MPs would have to vote with the opposition to make the 201-vote simple majority. Political analyst Protas Madlala said there was a slim chance that Mbete would decide on a secret ballot. “The court did not instruct her, but it said she must use her discretion,” Madlala said. He also said it was unlikely that ANC MPs, especially those in the executive, would vote themselves out of their jobs. “If there is a handful of them, the question is whether there will be majority, but I doubt it.” Kodwa would not be drawn to comment on what would happen to ANC MPs who broke ranks. “We can’t speculate on what will happen,” he said before dismissing suggestions that the action against Khoza was a message to other MPs to toe the line. Kodwa said it was disingenuous for people and opposition parties playing double standards to expect ANC MPs to vote against their own when other parties did not do the same. He said the EFF was taking action against its councillors who did not vote according to the party position in a  Mogale City council meeting. The DA would expect its MPLs in the  Western Cape legislature to not back the ­motion of no-confidence in Premier Helen Zille, Kodwa said. Madlala said it was a common phenomenon for organisations, including opposition parties, to expect their members not to vote against a party decision. Daily News