“It is not a South African Tourism thing: it is a South Africans thing,” said Margie Whitehouse, the chief marketing officer for SA Tourism, who spoke at a roadshow in Durban for the local industry this week. The campaign “to make people get up and get involved” will be called “We Do Tourism” and aims to get every South African to acknowledge that without tourism, the economy will struggle. More than 500000 jobs have been created by the industry, which contributes 3% to the country's economy, the gathering was told. “If tourism wins, we all win,” Whitehouse said. The campaign will be launched in September - Tourism Month - and on September 30, towns, cities and villages around the country will organise their own special “tourist street” where local people will cook, sing, hold events, stage various activations and interactions to showcase tourism. “We will create the excitement, but what will happen will be that everyone (in the various locations) will become competitive,” Whitehouse predicted. Importance Spelling out how people can play their part and “do tourism”, the audience was told that they should never doubt the importance of a friendly, welcoming smile. “Research has shown that visitors come back because of the people “We are warm and welcoming,” Whitehouse said. Often people did not realise that they were in the tourism business, like the Home Affairs officials who stamp visitors’ passports at entry points, and car guards and police officers who combat crime and thus create a positive image of the country. Chefs and waiters can show off the country's warm hospitality and fine local cuisine. Restaurant owners can source their produce from local industries, encouraging businesses to grow and contribute to tourism. Another suggestion was for a supermarket chain to put “I do tourism” stickers on brooms and give them to 10000 people who will help beautify their areas. The chief executive of SA Tourism, Sisa Ntshona, also spoke of the new 5-in-5 strategy that is being led by SA Tourism. He said 2016 had been a bumper year for South Africa, with 10.2 million international visitors arriving in the country. This had followed a very difficult 2014-2015 “when the world decided that the whole of Africa had ebola. That hit our figures hard,” Ntshona said. The 10 million tourists who arrived last year spent R75.5billion in the country. There had also been 24.3 million domestic trips when R26.5bn had been spent. But there were 1.2bn international tourists across the world, and the 10 million that South Africa had received was not even 1% of the global market share, said Ntshona. Now the plan is to grow the number of tourists by five million in five years. Just as the 2010 Fifa World Club had focused everyone's minds, the 5-in-5 campaign was deliberate and measurable. The aim was to get 4 million extra international tourists and 1 million more domestic holiday trips. He urged newcomers to the industry not to “do more of the same”, but to come up with new and unique activities. While some tourist venues were not interested in focusing on domestic tourists, preferring to get pounds, dollars and euros from their international visitors, he said that this represented a gap in the market. “That's when we need people with the entrepreneurial spirit to come in and shake the space,” Ntshona said. Daily News