A new study, which measures positive reputation from both an internal and external perspective, has found that South Africa's reputation is improving. This year’s results show an improvement both in terms of how respondents in the G8, and South Africans perceive the country in terms of its reputation. Among the BRICS countries, the country is positioned 3rd place with Brazil and India in first and second places respectively. Interestingly enough, the 2017 results show that the United States of America’s perceived reputation has fallen behind South Africa’s, placing it at 47th out of the 71 countries measured.
 
The study evaluates country reputations among the general population of the G8 countries, while also providing an internal assessment from the perspective of South Africans.
 
Brand SA Chief Executive Officer Dr Kingsley Makhubela said: “South Africa’s performance in such indices encourages national efforts by government, business, civil society and South African’s in general -  to strengthen recovery strategies that’ll ensure that we improve our economy, and global competitiveness.” Brand SA is the official marketing agency of South Africa, with a mandate to build the country's brand reputation, in order to improve its global competitiveness. Its aim is also to build pride and patriotism among South Africans, in order to contribute to social cohesion and nation brand ambassadorship.
 
According to the G8 countries, factors driving South Africa’s reputation and improvement in the rankings come as a result of advancements in areas of: progressive social and economic policies, a well-educated and reliable workforce, production of high quality products and services, that the country values education, beautiful landscape, and it’s friendly and welcoming people. 
 
Other reputation attributes that impact on G8 perceptions about South Africa are that it is an important contributor to the global culture, is a responsible participant in the global community, and offers an appealing lifestyle.
 However, it should be noted that South Africans are much more critical of the country than international respondents to the study. The two areas in which South Africans and the G8 general public agree, and hence rate the country highly, is that it is a beautiful country, and that her people are warm and friendly.
 
A new development in the attitude of South Africans towards their own country is the emphasis on valuing education which international respondents admire.
 
“This also reinforces perceptions about South Africans, from other studies such as the Nation Brand Index, as hardworking and resilient people.  Importantly, a reputation is not a fixed once off outcome of an action, or set of actions. "The nation brand and our global competitiveness is built by all citizens through their pride and patriotism, and improvements in our global reputation is a testament to the work that we are all doing to make South Africa a winning nation. 
 
“This is a continuous process that needs to be refined based on the challenges and opportunities presented to our nation. Despite challenges, South Africa stands ready to contribute to inspire new ways of creating significant opportunities for growth and greater prospects for its citizens,” said Makhubela.
 African News Agency (ANA)