“We would be failing our future generation if we dropped the standard of maths, especially because it is such an important subject for them to succeed in life,” he said on Thursday. “The challenge is that we are living in an information age. If pupils do not achieve good results in gateway subjects such as maths, then the whole education standard would drop,” he said. He said that although the issue was being handled nationally, he did not support it. The Department of Basic Education is proposing scrapping the requirement that pupils must pass maths in order to pass the grade if they do not intend to take maths all the way to matric. The department also wants the pass mark for four subjects to be lowered to 30% and the pass mark for three of the other seven subjects, including home languages, to be set to 40%. “Dropping the standard and passing pupils leniently is not the solution. How are we going to remain competitive in this fourth industrial revolution when we do not equip our children with the proper skills?” Teachers’ unions have different views on the matter, however. The South African Democratic Teachers’ Union is advocating for the changes and felt it made no sense to expect high standards in lower grades when standards were lowered in higher grades. The National Teachers’ Union was against the idea and felt that the proposal did not put the pupils’ best interests at heart. The proposals still have to undergo a consultative process between schools, student bodies and parents. Dlungwana was speaking in an interview with the Daily News at the official launch of the 100-day countdown to the start of the 2017 National Senior Certificate Examinations in Dokkies Hall in Glenwood. About 154 000 matriculants are expected to sit for the examinations from October 16, the largest number of candidates to write in a province. Dlungwana said the province had set high standards and wanted to improve the matric pass rate by 10% and reach 76% from last year’s 66%. One way of achieving this was through improving the marks of the schools which had previously recorded 0% pass rates and those which got less than 30%. Last year seven schools in the province obtained a 0% pass rate. “We are ready for the exams. We have been hard at work since the beginning of the year. “We increased the number of pupils we took to boot camp extra classes from 240 in 2016 to 1200 pupils this year.” One of the schools which always sets the bar high for its pupils and which is one of the province’s top achievers, Menzi High School in uMlazi, made it compulsory for its pupils to be at school from 6.30am until 5pm. Nompumelelo Khoza, who spoke on behalf of the school pupils during the launch on Thursday, said the school had been achieving a 100% pass rate for the past five years and 85% bachelor passes. Dlungwana and pupils representing various schools then lit a candle for the class of 2017. Dlungwana had this message for the matriculants: “I wish the class of 2017 everything of the best as the serious preparations for the exams begin. “Keep your head up. This is the time to focus all your energies at achieving excellent results. Stay passionate and remember nothing is impossible when you work hard.” Daily News