According to Fidelity ADT Security, the gang hit two cellphone shops at Westwood Mall on Saturday and removed the digital video recorder (DVR) cameras at both shops before fleeing with a number of cellphones, including those belonging to some of the workers. It is alleged that four men entered the MTN shop at 4.50pm and held members of staff at gunpoint. They removed the DVR camera before forcing the staff into the storeroom where, at gunpoint, they were told to open the safe. The gang fled with about 36 cellphones and left three staff members locked inside the storeroom. They then proceeded to Glocell where they also removed the camera. While two of the men tried to get staff to open the safe for them and the others robbed staff, they were disturbed by mall security. Some workers and store owners at Westwood Mall said they were concerned that the gang had now adopted a new strategy. A mall security guard said the robbers were aware of the cameras. “The cameras had assisted the police in previous cases to catch the criminals as they were caught on camera. Almost all the shops in the mall have cameras,” he said. Aware Workers who spoke on condition of anonymity said robbers previously never removed cameras although they were aware of them. “We are shocked by Saturday’s incident. Our colleagues were robbed. Our cellphones are now also at risk,” said a worker. Earlier this month, two men believed to be the co-ordinators of the jewellery and cellphone  gangs targeting malls across the province, were arrested after months of investigation by the provincial task team. One of the men, a 31-year-old, believed to be the co-ordinator of the jewellery gang, appeared in the Durban Magistrate’s Court on charges of robbery and aggravating circumstances. He has allegedly been linked to two armed robberies, one at Pearls Mall in uMhlanga in April, and at another jewellery shop in Hillcrest. It is believed that he was identified through CCTV footage from both robberies showing him wearing a red Lacoste shirt and a blue Manchester United shirt during the respective robberies. Thulani Zwane, police spokesperson, said it was not always the case for robbers to remove these cameras from the shops. “Our investigations do not solely rely on cameras. We will use other investigative tools to help us trace the suspects,” said Zwane. “Visible patrols are conducted and the Trio Crime task team has been established to deal with these robberies. We are appealing to the public to come forward with any information about planned robberies. Members of the community must not buy stolen goods and must report those selling them,” Zwane appealed. Daily News