DURBAN - The 'kingpin' behind a spate of mall robberies across the city was arrested on Monday night. The man along with an accomplice also connected to the smash-and-grab raids on jewellery and other high end good stores at malls was arrested by detectives from the Provincial Mall Robbery Task Team at their hideout in uMlazi. Police spokesman, Brigadier Jay Naicker said the arrests followed an intelligence driven operation by various police units. "Detectives from the Provincial Mall Robbery Task Team had been tracking the movements of the suspect who remained very elusive and was possibly aware that police were looking for him. Last night (Monday) police launched an operation after identifying two residences at AA section  and BB section in Umlazi, used as hideouts by these criminals," Naicker said. "During the operation two suspects were arrested including the leader of a mall robbery gang. It is believed that this gang targeted shops that sold jewellery and wrist watches. Police were able to recover wrist watches and expensive perfumes that were taken in some of the robberies. The main suspect is positively linked at least three mall robberies whilst the second suspect was found in possession of goods taken during a fourth robbery. Both men who are in their early thirties, will appear in court soon," he said. In recent weeks, there have been dozens of mall robberies with gangs zeroing in on jewellery and clothing and cellphone stores. Malls that have been targeted are: The Pearls Mall, Musgrave Centre, The Atrium and Southway Mall, while there have also been unconfirmed reports of incidents at Gateway, Scottburgh Mall, The Galleria Mall, Bluff Towers, Watercrest Mall, Pinecrest Shopping Centre, Kloof Village Mall, The Pavilion and Westwood Mall. The KwaZulu-Natal Acting Provincial Commissioner, Major General Bheki Langa onn Tuesday welcomed the arrests. “The Provincial Mall Robbery Task Team has been working around the clock to trace many of the suspects identified during their investigations. It is only a matter of time before we reel in other suspects involved in various mall robberies. We once again appeal to the community not to buy stolen goods and support these criminal gangs,” he said. Daily News