DURBAN - Rescue Care and ER24 paramedics responded to more than 10 accidents in KwaZulu-Natal at the weekend, which left at least three dead and seventy-two injured. Rescue Care responded to the motor vehicle collision on the corner of Yusuf Dadoo (Grey) and (Pine) Streets just before 5 am on Saturday morning. Spokesperson Ceron Lennox said Fani Mathenjwa, who was walking alongside the road, was knocked by one of the vehicles following the collision. He sustained extensive injuries and was declared dead at the scene. Motor vehicle collision on the corner of Yusuf Dadoo (Grey) and (Pine) Streets. Picture: Rescue Care “Ten people who were commuting in the vehicles sustained minor to moderate injuries in the collision,” she said. ER24 said two people were killed and 14 were injured after two taxis collided at Wartburg on Saturday. “Upon ER24’s arrival at 10.20 am, SAPS were already on scene. Unfortunately, there was nothing that could be done for the two women on the scene and ER24 declared them dead,” said Ineke van Huyssteen. A taxi crashed into a bakkie on the N3 before Richmond Road. Picture: Rescue Care Incidents A pedestrian was knocked over on Bluff Road just after 6 am on Saturday morning. Seven people were injured when a minibus taxi and a light motor vehicle crashed at the M19 - Mountbatten Drive intersection on Saturday morning. Three motorbikes crashed and three bikers were injured after one of the riders lost control of his bike on the M13 at Fields Hill on Saturday afternoon. At around noon, five people were injured when a vehicle overturned on the M19 near Otto Volek Road in Pinetown. Four people were seriously hurt after a vehicle rolled on the N3 near Pavilion just after 4 pm. Just after 7 am on Sunday, three people were injured when a taxi crashed into the wall of the RTI testing ground on Titren Road. A taxi and motor vehicle collided on the corner of Stalwart Simelane and Sandile Thusi Road. Picture: Rescue Care In the afternoon, a taxi and motor vehicle collided on the corner of Stalwart Simelane and Sandile Thusi Road, leaving 15 people injured. A taxi crashed into a bakkie on the N3 before Richmond Road, leaving eight people injured. A biker and his passenger were injured after they collided with a car on Booth Road on Sunday evening. Police are investigating. Daily News