Leanne Douglas died after bullets were fired at her car while she was driving on the N2 from the KwaZulu-Natal South Coast to Durban, to visit her mother. Douglas, 45, owned the Red Rooster restaurant at Spiller’s Wharf, Port Shepstone. Moses Dlamini, Ipid spokesperson, told the Daily News last week that they would brief the media on the case and others involving the police and the K-9 unit. “We are arranging to come to KwaZulu-Natal in two weeks to brief the media on these cases, including the one you are enquiring about. (There are a) range of cases reported in KZN, some of which you may not be aware of,” Dlamini said. The Douglas case was brought to Ipid’s attention by eMkhomazi police station commander Colonel PN Govender after the police officers who were allegedly involved in the incident, had apparently tried to conceal the fact that they had shot at the car, Dlamini had said at the time. On Sunday, Govender declined to comment because of police protocol. A senior officer close to the case said the shooting involved officers from more than one station. “This started in Port Shepstone, with the area officers following the woman, and were later joined by uMzinto officers. The only reason eMkhomazi officers got involved was because the actual end of the chase happened in their jurisdiction. Attending the scene, the station commander noticed bullet holes in the car as it was towed away. "Surprisingly, that information was not recorded in the report by the officers who were chasing the woman,” said the officer, who asked not to be named. He said only one officer from the uMzinto police station was subsequently dismissed from the police service. “A case of murder and defeating the ends of justice was recorded and handed over to Ipid. The officers were trying to hide that they shot at the vehicle. This is someone’s child and most of all, a South African citizen. Her mother deserves to see justice served. "Even though we don’t know what became of the investigation into the case, we hope that Ipid will leave no stone unturned to help the woman’s mother get closure,” he said. Douglas’s mother, Leonie Luckin, could not be reached for comment. In March, Luckin told the Daily News that she had decided to give up her quest for justice. She said the death of her only surviving relative had affected her health. Daily News