Yoliswa and Xolani Gumede, who set up their Cappeny Estates strawberry farm four years ago, have offered to share their knowledge with newcomers, and are not concerned they could be helping future rivals to enter the industry. “We cannot cope with the demand, so there is plenty of business for everyone,” Yoliswa Gumede said. An impressed Bheki Cele, the Deputy Minister of Agriculture, visited the couple’s 17ha farm yesterday, saying his department would be working behind the scenes to take up the couple’s offer and to create “more Gumedes”. Congratulating them for “showing the way”, he said he was “overwhelmed” to find such a sophisticated operation being run by a young black couple who were producing wonderful tasting strawberries. Similar operations, if modelled on the Gumedes’ farm, could produce thousands of much-needed jobs around the country, he said. The couple and department officials were locked in a meeting before a walkabout discussing the Gumedes’ offer to build the industry and to see how their concept can be replicated. Cutting-edge ideas were being entertained to penetrate areas considered inaccessible for growing strawberries, guests heard. There were numerous challenges in growing strawberries, but lessons could be learnt from Cappeny Estates and problems could be avoided, Xolani Gumede explained. “There are severe production challenges, but when you have the product, you do not battle to sell it,” he said. The business has to pay royalties - and foreign currency - to an American company for the intellectual property which generated the cultivars and for the rights to grow strawberries. Opportunity Cele said that developing a South African-generated product was an opportunity for the country’s research scientists to work on. The couple hope to grow the strawberry industry like the country’s wine industry, so that when they go to international expos, they “can hunt in packs” and go as a country, not as a company. As first-generation farmers, they knew that strawberries would be a difficult crop, but persevered even though experts told them it could never be done in the Ballito area. They bought the land in 2012 and after much research and international trips to various strawberry fields, broke ground the following year. They have the only commercial strawberry farm on the North Coast and employ between 60 and 100 people to pick strawberries, depending on the season. They grow five varieties of strawberries and while they initially had 4ha under production, they now have 8.5ha, with plans to increase the harvest. They sell to various supermarkets nationally, with Woolworths being their latest customer. And with the necessary certificate, they are about to export to the Middle East. The farm is open to the public to pick their own strawberries from today until December. Daily News