Tenants who breached by-laws would face the full might of the law, Nzuza warned on Thursday. After being alerted to the transgression, Nzuza - who is in Pretoria on municipal business - said it was a concern that people would make alterations without municipal approval. He sent his team and Metro police to inspect the premises. On Thursday evening, he received feedback that the owner sold food from there and ran an entertainment business without a business licence. The owner was charged, advised on how to apply for all licences and instructed to close down until he had them. The shop, a spaza shop and 
gaming centre at the corner of Crieff Place and Erskine 
Terrace, was extended beyond the perimeter wall and a water meter was attached to the original wall. A local man, who asked to remain anonymous, said he had witnessed the alterations being made “some time ago”. “They later broke a hole in the new wall to expose the water meter and made two smaller holes as ventilators. “This place is rotten and is not doing any justice to the Durban beachfront’s image. There are other buildings in the area which have also breached the by-laws,” he said. A man who claimed he was an employee in the spaza shop said he did not know who owned or managed the building. Nzuza said he had had a meeting on Monday with his executive team, including deputy city managers, department heads and senior managers, where he had expressed his dissatisfaction about “bad buildings” around the city. “In that meeting we formed a steering committee that will report to me and the deputy city managers. “This will tell us what progress has been made in dealing with buildings where city bylaws have been infringed, and what still needs to be done around the city. “I combined teams from different units because  when we work on clearing the city of eyesore buildings we need security. We need people who can interpret the by-laws so we do our work within the confines of the law. “I told the team that there are beautiful buildings  in town, but some are surrounded by dilapidated buildings. We need to ensure that we identify problem buildings to save those that are still an attraction to Durban,” Nzuza said. He said he was in Pretoria for discussions about T20 cricket. He said games were scheduled to be held in Durban in December. “We have hosted a number of big events successfully, but we need to do more to make our city beautiful and ready for more of these events. “I will send people to go and look at the building in question,” he said. Daily News