“I want to see women contractors and see how their lives have changed. I don’t want ‘fronters’ - women fronting 
for men,” he said in Durban on Thuesday. And he wants to see young entrepreneurs in places like Transnet National Ports Authority (TNPA). “The youth are not children. They are up to the age of 35 and that is old enough to run their own enterprises,” he said during a Durban port visit hosted by TNPA. The government’s infrastructure budget is R500billion, he said. “But where are the young people, not only as workers, but as entrepreneurs? I want to see them in transport.  Where is the transformation programme to bring in more young people?” he asked. Maswanganyi also said he wanted to see more disabled people being trained and empowered. It was not enough to consider them for compliance requirements. The minister, along with the deputy minister Sindisiwe Chikunga, were in Durban to launch the Comprehensive Maritime Transport Policy, which is the government’s commitment to the growth, development and transformation of the maritime transport sector. The minister said the policy would go a long way to transform lives along the coast. His department would work with other government departments, such as the Department of Agriculture and Fisheries, to implement the policy and would help communities along the coast to access fishing licences. Ocean The ocean economy, which contributed more than R137billion to the GDP, was regarded as the country’s 10th province. The maritime industry was critical and it was the government’s vision to grow it. But it also had to align itself to the government’s radical economic transformation plans and ensure that the previously disadvantaged - particularly Africans - who are involved in it, be brought into the mainstream. The new chief executive of TNPA, Shulami Qalinge - the first women to hold the position - said that Durban remained the jewel in the crown of the port system. TNPA welcomed the comprehensive transport policy because it would guide the 
organisation, and pledged its commitment to finding innovative ways to facilitate growth, she said. Ricky Bikraj, TNPA’s executive manager of Operation Phakisa, Research and Development, said that TNPA had already spent R401million on its various Operation Phakisa projects - which had created 602 jobs. It planned to spend R2.1billion in the 2017-2018 and 2018-2019 financial years The delegation, which also included senior officials in all spheres of government, captains of the maritime industry and other key players in the transport sector, went on a tour of the harbour. Part of the tour involved a visit to the Southern African Shipyards (SAS), which is building nine state-of-the-art tugs for TNPA in a R1.4bn contract, the largest-ever awarded by TNPA in South Africa for building harbour craft. The SAS team are now working on the last four tugs. Daily News