JOHANNESBURG - The US military, in partnership with the South Africa National Defence Force, will conduct Exercise Shared Accord 2017, a command post and company-level field training exercise, from Monday until August 3. Shared Accord 17 is a US Africa Command directed and US Army Africa-led exercise designed to assess the capacity and capability of participating staff and forces in peacekeeping operations, a Monday press release from the American Embassy in Pretoria stated. Over 1,000 military personnel from the U.S. and South Africa will participate in the annual, combined, joint military exercise. “We are very pleased to be in South Africa for the Shared Accord exercise,” said Brigadier General William Prendergast, deputy commander US Army Africa. “We could not have asked for a better training environment and our soldiers are ready for tough, realistic training which increases readiness for both organisations. I would like to thank the South African team for hosting this outstanding event.” The exercise, which will take place at the South Africa National Defence Force Combat Training Centre in the Northern Cape, will include headquarters staff training, land force manoeuvres and culminate with a platoon-level live-fire demonstration. Shared Accord (formerly Southern Accord) 2017 is an annual, combined, joint military exercise that brings together US forces and partner nations to foster security cooperation, while improving operational planning and mission command capabilities. Shared Accord promotes regional relationships, increases capacity, trains US and South African forces, and furthers cross training and inter-operability. This exercise will help provide participating military forces the skills required to enable readiness in support of peacekeeping operations. The US military is getting valuable training as well, in areas such as planning for peace support operations, combined command, and expeditionary operations. Once the exercise is complete, all exercise participants will return to their home countries and stations. African News Agency (ANA)