“At 12 o’clock tomorrow (Friday), a white judge, who like all white people comes from a framework of thinking which puts whiteness first, we don’t have any trust in any white person,” BLF leader Andile Mngxitama said while addressing the media outside the South Gauteng High Court. The court had earlier heard an urgent application by the South African National Editors’ Forum (Sanef) and several journalists to interdict BLF from harassing, intimidating, assaulting and threatening journalists, especially those reporting on state capture. Mngxitama went on to lash out at various media houses, including Naspers, as well as former finance minister Pravin Gordhan, calling him a “house negro”. Earlier, Judge Corrie van der Westhuizen said he was satisfied with the application Sanef brought forward, and that the matter had to be heard with urgency. Judgment on the matter was expected on Friday. During the proceedings, advocate Thembeka Ngcukaitobi, for Sanef, requested that Judge Van der Westhuizen make an order interdicting BLF from intimidating journalists, that BLF retract all threatening statements made on social media, and that they pay the court costs. BLF members were heard laughing when Ngcukaitobi made the request. Commenting on the matter, Sanef chairperson Mahlatse Gallens said: “We are appreciative of today and are expecting him to rule on the merits of the case. “We are here because we want to uphold the law. What we have seen is harassment of our journalists, and basically trying to silence them from doing the work that is protected by the constitution of this country.” Gallens added that there was nothing wrong with protesting, as it was part of the country’s democracy and was allowed by law. “If you want to protest, you must go to the police and ask for permission, but going to people’s houses and assaulting journalists is a criminal offence,” she said in response to Mngxitama saying BLF would continue protesting. “What we want the BLF and the court to do is say that their protests cannot be violent.” Meanwhile, South African political parties have condemned the attacks on the journalists. ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu said if intimidation and harassment were allowed to happen to one sector of society, it would fester, leading to lawlessness becoming part of the South African political scene. “You will then decline to the lowest levels of anarchy as a political society. You must then stop it now, you must stop with these attacks on the media and journalists,” Mthembu said. He questioned why BLF had not marched to the media houses instead of attacking journalists in their homes, “because they don’t work in their homes”. “If you are not happy with what I’m writing, there are the editors, sub-editors and also the company policy, therefore you cannot hold me as a writer responsible for the political stance of even my media house,” said Mthembu. Blessed Gwala, IFP spokesperson, said it was wrong for anyone to coerce, intimidate, harass and assault journalists. “If the journalists are crossing the line, there is the press ombudsman to report the behaviour of a journalist or a media house, but you cannot take the law into your hands and act against journalists,” Gwala said. He added that the intimidation of journalists was an act of criminality, because “there was no organisation within the borders of South Africa that doesn’t know how journalists operate”. Zwakele Mncwango, the DA’s KwaZulu-Natal leader, said his party’s values included transparency and accountability. He said it was important to protect media freedom, because there would be no transparency without media freedom. Daily News