On learning on Monday that the Concourt judges refused to believe he had had no part in his wife’s murder, Manilall shot himself at his Howick West home rather than surrender himself to begin serving his life sentence. He was expected to be served papers today, and to report on Thursday to the registrar’s office at the Pietermaritzburg High Court, where he was initially sentenced for the murder of his wife, Monika, in February 2006. From there, he was to be taken to prison. Manilall’s appeal against his conviction was first dismissed by a full Bench in August last year. The appeal judges rejected arguments by Manilall’s defence team that Mumtaz Bergum Osman, the woman Manilall was having an affair with at the time of the murder, and whom he married during the trial, had arranged the murder without his knowledge. On January 11, judges at the Constitutional Court also dismissed his further appeal. However, their decision was only conveyed to the Pietermaritzburg High Court registrar’s office on Friday, giving Manilall a few extra months of freedom. State advocate Attie Truter, who prosecuted Manilall and Osman, said he learnt about the Constitutional Court’s decision to dismiss Manilall’s appeal after being advised by the registrar on Monday. Osman has already served seven years of her life sentence, at Westville Prison. Speaking hours before Manilall committed suicide on Monday, her mother, Yasmin Rashid, claimed her daughter had been used by him. “Justice has now been served,” she said, adding that her daughter, now 44, was doing well in prison. Osman, who pleaded “not guilty” to murder during the trial, confessed to the crime after being sentenced. She said Manilall had dipped into his overdraft to pay the killers, who received R10000. When she refused to help Manilall kill his wife, he threatened that he would “send guys” to kill her, she claimed. Osman’s allegations about the murder were “strongly denied” by Manilall, his lawyer Rajeeth Mewalall commented at the time. When she first met Manilall, she was working as a prostitute to feed her children and he was a client. Their relationship had developed and he started to give her money for groceries and to care for her children. The court heard testimony that Manilall had driven his wife to a supermarket a day before she was killed so that the hitmen could see what she looked like. One of the gunmen, Siyabonga Mdlalose, had testified that Manilall and Osman had helped plan the murder. Mdlalose - also jailed for life - recounted how he shot Monika in the chest at her home in front of her infant daughter. Despite being grievously wounded, she got up to get to the panic button and he ran to her and fired another shot into her head. Osman’s brother, Aziz, said Manilall had abandoned his sister to her fate in prison, and was involved in another relationship. Monika’s brother, Suren Ramjas, said previously that Manilall had a new wife and child. His family would only be happy when he was jailed. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said an inquest docket was opened at Howick police station in connection with Manilall’s death. Daily News