DURBAN - While the SACP national congress is under way in Pretoria, the Communist Party in KwaZulu-Natal said it would task its incoming central committee with lobbying the ANC on making the Tripartite Alliance a “strategic centre of power”.
Themba Mthembu, SACP KZN provincial secretary, said the province had debated the idea of the SACP contesting the 2019 general elections alone. Mthembu said he hoped their call to the ANC, for a reconfigured alliance, would not be rejected because this would complicate matters. “The SACP is not an electoral party, but at the same time cannot ignore the activities around parliamentarism. We asked ourselves the question whether we have achieved what we had set ourselves by being in alliance with the ANC and Cosatu. “The answer is no, we have not but we are wary of the current state of the alliance “Hence we said going forward we need a reconfigured alliance which will allow aligning partners on critical decisions of the country,” Mthembu said. He said they would look for a broad front if the communist party’s calls were rejected as the party wanted the alliance to be a strategic centre of power meaning key strategic decisions must be taken collectively. Task He added that the SACP would task their incoming Central Committee with giving these demands to the ANC. Dr Somadoda Fikeni, a political analyst, said the pressure has been building over the years and the party had been under heavy scrutiny from its members to consider running in the 2019 elections. “If its challenges with the ANC are not resolved and they perceive that the ANC is in a weaker position, then it is likely that they may break away. “Even if they break away with conditions when they get the numbers they may still come back to the ANC to negotiate a seat in government,” Fikeni said. He added that this would depend on them feeling confident of persuading Cosatu and some of its affiliates to support the SACP because the union was “far more organised and solid with numbers”. Fikeni said the SACP contesting the 2019 general election as a standalone party would most likely reduce the ANC’s majority with a risk of reducing it below 50% if the two parties had not resolved their issues. “They may still have more squabbles, more disputes and more contestations around the organising of the ANC’s national elective conference in December and the perception of some cheating taking place in the process and so forth,” said Fikeni. Bheki Mngomezulu, another political analyst, said the SACP contesting the 2019 general elections was no longer just a rumour, but one of the issues set to be discussed at length over the party’s five-day national congress, which began on Monday. “If they ditch the ANC and become a standalone party, they would want to see if there is any impact they can have in 2019 but it is an issue that will be discussed at length,” said Mngomezulu. He said many prominent leaders of the SACP had campaigned vigorously in the ANC’s name in elections since 1994 and a loss of this support would be telling at the polls. He added that even if the ANC won the 2019 elections without the SACP, it would have to share power with other parties making it difficult to rule in the manner that it wants. Daily News