None of the teachers were present at school either. They were unhappy about the Department of Education’s choice of new principal at the school. The department appointed a high school teacher to take over the reins, but parents are up in arms. They felt Odette Rita Abrahams, who was acting principal at the school for the past two years, should have been appointed. The staff, parents and school governing body (SGB) had recommended to the Department of Education that deputy principal Abrahams be given the post of principal because she had management exposure at the school, was suitable and better qualified. Abrahams has been Assegai Primary School acting principal (two years), the deputy principal for 24 years and head of department (HOD) for 10 years. The school’s last principal, Trevor Webster, resigned in 2015 after serving at the helm for more than 25 years. Abrahams took over, and according to Andre de Bruin, the SGB chairperson, Abrahams “had been doing a sterling job”. “We are merely questioning the process followed by the Education Department in the selection of the new principal. “We want to make right what is wrong. We feel this appointment was flawed,” said De Bruin. He claimed the new principal was a Level 1 high school teacher with seven years of experience and would not know how to manage the school. De Bruin said she had apparently been in an acting head of department post at her school for the past two years. “Someone with a Level 1 qualification and seven years’ experience is not equipped to be a principal. “In the last two years that Odette has been in the post, she has done so much for the school. They must show us the documents and the ratification process used by the interview committee,” said De Bruin. He said 28 candidates were chosen with three shortlisted for the position. The SGB then selected Abrahams as their candidate for the post. He said the decision was not made based on emotions, but because of the hard work and high standard maintained at Assegai, because of Abrahams. “Odette Abrahams is more than qualified to be the principal at the school. “She has a Level M7, which equates to an honours degree in teaching. Right now, in Wentworth, there are a number of principals reaching retirement so our community is ripe for the picking,” said Clint Leverton, SGB deputy chairperson. Councillor Aubrey Snyman addressed parents at the school on Monday and called for calm in the community. “We need to get to the bottom of this. There are a lot of allegations of inconsistencies regarding the manner in which the person for the post was selected. “We need to assess if the appointment was fair or biased. It does not matter where the candidate is from, but a person should be hired on merit,” he said. Vee Gani, Parents Association of KwaZulu-Natal chairperson, said the department could not just place people in the principal’s post at the school. “The SGB has to make a decision on who to place. Parents and members of the SGB must stand strong. A person should be hired at the school based on their experience, knowledge and expertise. It cannot be a case of jobs for friends,” he said. Kwazi Mthethwa, of the department, said if there were objections or dissatisfaction from the parents at the school, there are relevant channels to follow. Daily News