Zaheer Haniff, of Reservoir Hills, had a childhood dream of becoming an engineer but he could not decide on which field: chemical, mechanical, civil or electrical. Haniff finally decided on becoming an electrical engineer and excelled throughout his tertiary education. After birth Haniff was diagnosed with profound hearing loss. This shattered his parents, Mohammed and Asya, but they did not lose hope and extensive research led them to the Carel du Toit Centre in Cape Town. His parents were advised to enrol him at a school where teachers interacted with deaf and hearing-impaired pupils rather than teach them by sign language. When he was of school-going age, Haniff was initially enrolled at the VN Naik School for the Deaf in Newlands West, which uses sign language for pupils with hearing difficulties. Shortly thereafter he secured a place at the Durban School for the Hearing Impaired in eManzimtoti, where he studied until he matriculated. He had just turned 17 and was regarded as “the baby of the class”. In a testimonial, the school said of Haniff, who has won many accoloades: “He’s the baby of our matric class and has shown great potential. Zaheer is quiet and shy but is very motivated and a capable young man.” That testimony inspired Haniff to chase his dream of becoming an electrical engineer. He began his engineering course at the eThekwini College in Springfield where he completed his N1 to N4 courses and then completed the N5 and N6 at Coastal College in Umbilo. Having completed his studying, trepidation set in. Would he be able to find employment? “I did not give up hope. I was inspired by struggle icon Nelson Mandela, who said after his release that education is the most powerful weapon  one could use to change the world,” Haniff said. Armed with a diploma in electrical engineering, Haniff found employment, mainly for work experience, at M & B Engineering and his big break came soon afterwards when he was offered an internship at Blendcor (Pty) Ltd in Island View, Durban. Blendcor took Haniff under its wings, and offered him guidance and training, culminating in an apprenticeship and contract employment. They also paid for his training at the Mount Edgecombe  Centre. “I am over the moon. I have accomplished my dream even with my disability. I am thankful to my parents for their support and guidance and, more especially, my mentor  Mr Ahmed, who guided me all along.” Ahmed said Zaheer was a dedicated worker who was willing to learn and go the extra mile. Daily News