This information comes from taxi operators in the province who spoke to the Daily News on condition of anonymity. The Department of Transport has blamed financial institutions for being the cause of these fake permits and has blamed the taxi associations for taking on new members, despite a moratorium being in place. The moratorium was effected in 2007 by the department. It stopped issuing permits to new taxi operators, due to it being a flooded industry, and as a result taxi associations were not allowed to accept new members. However, the SA Taxi Council said taxi associations were ignoring this moratorium. Mandla Mzelemu, the council spokesperson, said they had also confronted financial institutions about financing these minibuses without valid permits. “They promised to stop, but we’re not taking their word for it. For them each approved deal means more business, but for the taxi industry each new operator means a smaller slice of the pie for those already in the business,” said Mzelemu. The issuing of additional permits to existing taxi owners was also put on hold by the department’s licensing board in an attempt to control the taxi industry. This has been ineffective considering the use of fake permits and the purchase of valid permits from established operators. A permit is required by financial institutions for approval to finance the purchase of a minibus taxi for public transport. “A taxi permit is the most cherished document to have in the taxi industry due to the difficulty in getting one. In fact, a taxi operator who started a taxi business five years ago would not have a taxi permit, unless it was transferred to their name by someone who had left the business,” said a taxi operator. Mzelemu explained that getting finance for a minibus taxi was impossible without a permit unless it was for private use. He said backlogs in the issuing of operating licences in the Licensing Board had opened the industry to taxi permit fraud because applications took more than a year to be approved for existing permit holders applying for additional permits to buy new vehicles. In essence, it is one taxi permit per vehicle. He said all the blame could not be pinned on the department alone. “The law is clear: financial institutions are not allowed to approve vehicle finance for customers without a valid operating permit and a letter from the taxi association. “Unfortunately, taxi operators find themselves involved in this corruption of buying fake permits to stay in business,” said Mzelemu. He also said taxi associations accepting new members contributed to the ongoing conflict over routes. He said the taxi industry was overcrowded and could not afford to accept new members into the business. Kwanele Ncalane, the provincial department spokesperson, said the department was aware of the fake permit issue, but said the onus was on the financial institution not to accept invalid permits. He said the department was issuing phase 3 permits to existing members wanting to buy additional vehicles, but was not issuing any permits to new operators. “Financial institutions are making money. What  the buyer, the dealer and the financial institutions don’t realise is that while they are turning a blind eye to this, they are actually killing their business. The danger of having an oversupply of taxis would mean less business for operators and more operators defaulting on their loan repayments,” said Ncalane. Daily News