Khoza said the ANC’s plans to charge her showed signs that the party was descending into 
a dictatorship. She said this matter was not about her, but the judicial system and the people’s voices were being put on trial. “As a Member of Parliament,  I am choosing the people over the party. Therefore, whatever punishment I am going to get, is because of this. I don’t think the party is taking a rational decision,” Khoza said. She said the bottom line was that the ANC wanted to intimidate its members. “The only thing I still need to clarify with them is whether they’ve considered the fact that they, as a structure, still have a legal challenge  - they still have to appear in court - or do they disregard whether or not they are legitimate?” Khoza said. She said her understanding was that the KZN provincial executive committee’s legitimacy was being challenged in the Pietermaritzburg High Court next month by a group within the ANC. The group wants the results of the 2015 provincial elective conference, where Sihle Zikalala was elected provincial chairperson, annulled. “One would’ve expected that they would wait for the outcome of that case before they could charge me or take any decision. Because to me if you charge somebody when you’ve not established your own legitimacy something is fundamentally flawed with that approach,” Khoza said. She felt the ANC should charge her so that she could take her next step. Because to her this constituted intimidation, and if the party was charging her they were beginning to control the outcome of what was going to happen during the vote of no-confidence against President Jacob Zuma. She said the ANC would find itself at loggerheads with the Constitutional Court judgment to allow National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete to decide whether or not the motion of no-confidence should be by secret ballot, because “you can’t charge me on the basis of something that is still to take place”. Violation “To me, it would be a serious violation or disregard of the judicial system,” Khoza said, adding that if the ANC charged her, the party would be telling the public that it did not recognise the country’s judicial system, because the structure that wanted to charge her had not been confirmed as a legitimate structure by the courts. “They ought to have legitimised themselves in court first, before they can charge me,” she said. She added that the Constitutional Court had been clear in allowing Mbete to exercise her discretionary powers to decide whether or not the motion of no-confidence in the president should be conducted through secret ballot. “I don’t think the court would’ve anticipated that there would be intimidation, because they stipulated strict conditions that the Speaker would have to adhere to, in order to arrive at that decision. “Now if they are doing that to me, it says they’re now intimidating members whichever way they will be voting, whether it be open or closed. And that you don’t care about that because you know you’ve already determined the outcome,” she said. Khoza added that if she was removed before the motion of no-confidence, the ANC would be sending a message to all its members (in Parliament) taking part in the ballot, and those members would be intimidated. “If the Speaker decides that it will be open, it already has a bearing, because one of the MPs has already been charged by the ruling party,” she said. Daily News  Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 