DURBAN - Life Healthcare has warned job seekers not fall prey to fraudsters using online job finding sites in an elaborate cash-for-jobs scam. It follows an increase of fraudulent scams that have been using Life Healthcare hospital names to get money from desperate job seekers. Life Healthcare said the advertisements are posted on recruitment websites or job portals where some of their hospitals have been used to advertise both real and fake vacancies at Life Healthcare. In a statement, Life Healthcare,  said that in some cases applicants are asked to pay as much as R4 000 for a 'job' that never materialises. "Unfortunately, some applicants paid the fees and did not receive feedback, and the person they paid is unreachable," Life Healthcare said in a statement, KwaZulu-Natal has eight Life Healthcare hospitals and some of them could have been used in fraudulent advertisements - Life Empangeni Private Hospital, Life Chatsmed Garden Hospital, Life Entabeni Hospital, Life Mount Edgecombe Hospital, Life St Joseph’s, Life The Crompton Hospital, Life Westville Hospital and Life Hilton Private Hospital. Juliet Mhango, Life Healthcare HR Executive said: “Over the past 12 months the hospital industry has become aware of fraudulent job offers, but we have seen a marked increase in these postings over the past few weeks. Job seekers who apply for hospital positions and are subsequently requested to make a payment upfront should not part with any money as this is not how we recruit new employees.” Mhango asked job seekers to report fraudulent adverts to the webmaster where the advertisements were posted. “We encourage job seekers to rather visit the Life Healthcare careers page and follow the application process from there”, she concluded. Life Healthcare also gave clues on how to spot a fraudulent job advertisement: 
 
·       The enquiry contact number is a cell number since landline numbers are “out of order”
·       A fax number is provided as the only contact method
·       The application form requests banking details
·       Payment may well be requested “upfront” for administration purposes and uniforms
·       No face-to-face interviews are requested
·       Posts do not use the hospital name in full. i.e.Bedford Gardens Hospital as opposed to Life Bedford Gardens Hospital
·       While the position itself may well be an existing vacant position at Life Healthcare, the application process is not legitimate. Daily News