Mdunge lost his second bid to stay out of jail when the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) last month dismissed his application for leave to appeal. The SCA found that there were no special circumstances meriting a further appeal at the Supreme Court. The former police colonel had lost his first bid, in February in the Pietermaritzburg High Court, to overturn his fraud and forgery conviction and five-year prison sentence, which led to the SCA application in April. In May 2014, Mdunge was sentenced to five years’ imprisonment on two counts of fraud and one of forgery. Magistrate Thandeka Fikeni found that he had presented a fake matric certification that secured him a promotion, advanced his career in the police force and gained him entry to the University of South Africa to continue his studies. He was convicted on one count of fraud for receiving a salary to which he was not entitled, and another for a forged matric certificate. Omar told the Daily News on Tuesday that Mdunge had not yet given him instructions to take the matter forward, but also said Mdunge still had options he could explore at the SCA. Omar refused to say what these options were before hearing back from Mdunge. “Traditionally from the SCA, the next higher court is the Constitutional Court. There are other options before the Constitutional Court. These other options had proven to be very successful with my previous cases,” said Omar. He said Mdunge was not a fugitive from justice and continued to maintain his innocence. “He has followed the court processes and if the court feels that he must start serving his sentence, he will,” said Omar. Manoj Hardeo, a criminal lawyer, said generally after an applicant lost such an appeal, the only other option was to petition the judge president of the SCA for leave to appeal to the Constitutional Court. “He would have to provide substantial reasons for prospects of success and those grounds would have to be so strong that the refusal for leave to appeal will probably result in a manifest denial of justice,” said Hardeo. He said this could be done within 21 days from the time of the dismissal, and in the case of a late application, a condonation application could be made along with a main application setting out reasons why the lateness should be condoned. William Booth, criminal law expert and Law Society Committee chairperson, said a warrant of arrest could be issued for a convicted person if he failed to report to prison and had not filed the necessary application. Thulani Mdluli, Correctional Services spokesperson, had not commented at the time of publication. Daily News