Acting chief executive  Shabir Madhi said his institution was fully aware of the possible negative impact the strike might have on the public healthcare system. “NHLS management in various provinces will work with the provincial departments of health to minimise its impact,” he said. Madhi commented as the health department convened a meeting to broker an agreement between NHLS and the unions on the wage issue. The meeting was called because some of the unions lodged a dispute with the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA) last Friday, after no agreement had been reached during wage negotiations. The NHLS claimed to have no funds. The unions are demanding  between a 7% and 13% salary increase, while the NHLS is offering 3%. Some of the unions have already been granted a certificate to strike by the CCMA, but have yet to notify NHLS. Negotiations are still continuing. The seriousness of the situation has prompted the DA to call on Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi to intervene. The party also asked for contingency arrangements to be made with private laboratories, because the strike would affect patients in need of urgent tests for HIV/Aids, malaria, cancer, and multi-drug resistant TB. “Most of these patients have no other option but to depend on the public health sector to provide them with pathology services,” Patricia Kopane said. Joe Maila, the health department spokesperson, said yesterday’s meeting with the affected parties was not convened based on calls made by the DA. “The meeting has to make sure that the parties, NHLS and the unions, are able to find each other,” he said. The meeting, Maila insisted, was simply to broker a solution. He would not be drawn into commenting whether the department would consider a bailout. Khaya Xaba, National Education Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) spokesperson,  said they were waiting for a counter-offer to their 13% 
salary increase demand. He said it was too soon to talk about a strike at the moment. Leon Gilbert, the Public Servants’ Association of SA’s assistant general manager for collective bargaining, said they would not back down, despite the NHLS maintaining it did not have money in its coffers. “Our demand is reasonable under the current circumstances. Hopefully they find the money, because if conciliation does not succeed, our next step is to strike,” Gilbert said. Hospersa general secretary Noel Desfontaines said: “We are seeking a mandate.” Madhi did not respond to specific media questions on the strike, but he said his institution was exploring all avenues available to avert the strike through negotiation. Madhi said the likely extent of the strike action was unknown, but the NHLS was working on contingency plans to ensure that essential laboratory services were provided in the public health sector.  Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter  Daily News