DURBAN - Phendulani Buthelezi believes his success at school and more recently being named captain of the Durban High School Craven Week rugby team, is all thanks to his mother. “I would like to thank my mother for everything she has sacrificed for me to be able to be where I am today. I love her so much,” the 18-year old loose forward said. Buthelezi lead his team onto the field on Tuesday when they faced the Blue Bulls in the week-long rugby festival, being hosted at St Stithians in Johannesburg. Speaking to the Daily News, Buthelezi said when he was announced as the captain, he could not believe it. “This is nothing short of a massive honour to be able to lead a provincial team. It is a dream come true for me as a Natal boy. It really means a lot because not many people get to leave school having captained their provincial side at Craven Week. I am truly grateful to my Lord and my coaches that have shown so much faith in my,” he said. When asked what he brought to the team, Buthelezi said his team mates could best answer that question but added that he brought a vibe, flair and energy to the game. “I also bring good leadership skills and try by all means to make the guy next to me look better because I believe in acting in the best interests of the game and not myself as there is no I in team,” said Buthelezi. Buthelezi, who is also DHS Head Prefect for 2017 and Blackmore House Head Boy, said he was most looking forward to running onto the field with his brothers and having a great tournament. “I have signed a contract with the Sharks and I want to make the Sharks Union proud,” he added. Buthelezi named Ardie Savea as his favourite rugby player. “I personally believe that he is the definition of ‘work rate’ and whenever I watch him play, I get goosebumps because he always plays like it is his last game,” he said. Buthelezi plans to play rugby after school, while studying towards a degree in civil engineering. Throughout his time at Durban High School, Buthelezi has been acknowledged for his talent on the sports field. In 2013, Buthelezi was selected for the KZN Athletics team and again in 2014. In 2014 and 2015 Buthelezi was selected as a player for the U16 Grant Khomo Week and last year, played for the South African U18 Sevens and KZN Craven Week Team. Apart from this, he has also tried his hand at cricket and basketball, however rugby remains his passion. This year, Buthelezi led the Durban High School 1st XV Rugby Team as its Captain, with DHS enjoying one of its better years of Rugby, winning 12 out of 17 games, beating Maritzburg College and Glenwood High School as part of the FNB Classic Clashes. Daily News