In an interview with Independent Media, Mkhize said the problems facing the party were of a serious nature and needed immediate solutions. “We agreed there is need to consult wider stakeholders, more than the ANC, like the non-governmental organisations and civil society. “That is possible to do, but we need to do that as a separate exercise outside what is being done right now,” Mkhize said. He was speaking on the sidelines of the party’s policy conference at Nasrec, Johannesburg. Mkhize’s comments came against the backdrop of reports compiled by some civil society organisations alleging corruption and state capture in President Jacob Zuma’s administration. The Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (Outa) became the third outfit to put together a report on state capture. They submitted it to Parliament last week. The SA Council of Churches recently produced a damning report alleging that the country was headed to becoming a mafia state. Mkhize’s views also come hot on the heels of a fallout between the organisation and its stalwarts, who were severely attacked by Zuma in his opening address of the conference. Mkhize also admitted that most of the concerns raised by the veterans and stalwarts were valid. The veterans raised corruption, infighting and state capture as some of the challenges threatening the life of the ANC, especially its stay in power beyond 2019. They, together with the SACP and Cosatu, have called for Zuma to step down before the end of his term at the Union Buildings in 2019. “The question is how do we make sure that we get the proper solution to those issues. That is what this conference must be able to do,” Mkhize said. “We think this is the platform where these issues must be raised, particularly because all the complaints that people are raising about the organisation don’t really come from outside,” he said. Mkhize agreed with Zuma that the veterans and stalwarts had lost the best opportunity to use the national policy conference to raise their concerns about the party leadership. The veterans requested two days of the policy conference to be converted into a separate consultative conference to discuss the crisis facing the ANC. After their request had been turned down, the veterans decided to boycott the conference, and instead announced they would hold their own consultative event in September. Mkhize said the consultative forum would not be the right platform to discuss ANC issues because veterans and stalwarts were not an elected leadership structure. “We are not very comfortable with a situation where there is a separate conference created outside the organisation, because we don’t know how to call that,” he said. Despite veterans such as Wally Serote having boycotted the policy conference, ANC Women’s League president Bathabile Dlamini said she was happy that veterans such as Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, Mendi Msimang, Sindiswa Mfenyana, Frene Ginwala and Andrew Mlangeni had attended. Dlamini said the veterans had disappointed the ANC leadership, which had tried several times to listen to their grievances. “We have met with them, officials have met them, the NWC (national working committee) has met them a number of times because the kind of president we have is a very understanding president; he is very down to earth. He wanted to ensure that everyone was taken on board on such issues,” said Dlamini. ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe said some NGOs and civil society bodies were present at the conference. He said the party was looking at the SA Council of Churches’ report on state capture as part of finding internal solutions. In his diagnostic report, Mantashe said the ANC faced the challenge of finding a formula to reconnect with society. “This will include engaging forces that seem to be hostile to the movement,” he said. Daily News