Cosatu said its leaders would repeat their call for the ministers linked to President Jacob Zuma’s friends, the Guptas, to be removed from their jobs in a bid to fight state capture. Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa recently told the SACP congress he would not defend those implicated in state capture, and that action had to be taken against them. Human Settlements Minister Lindiwe Sisulu told the Sunday Independent recently that those identified in a trove of e-mails showing how the Guptas were involved in the running of the state should be fired by the ANC. Spokesperson Sizwe Pamla said when Cosatu went to the lekgotla they would reiterate their call for Gupta-linked ministers to be removed. “Cosatu’s position has always been that those ministers must step down, because of how they were appointed, and their incompetence. The e-mail leaks have unearthed a wealth of evidence against them.” Pamla’s comments came as former finance minister Pravin Gordhan and his former deputy, Mcebisi Jonas, escalated their fight against state capture on the eve of the lekgotla. Gordhan, an MP and NEC member, on Wednesday urged university students and academics to join the fight against state capture to prevent the country from going “into a slump” that could last 10 years. Gordhan and Jonas were addressing students and academics on state capture; white monopoly capital and radical economic transformation at the University of Johannesburg. Gordhan said his mission to expose state capture was receiving a rousing welcome and acceptance from those “who cared to listen. They know who is stealing. They know who is responsible for state capture. There is a decline of political morality. It is eroding the foundation of democracy”. Gordhan said he supported SA Council of Churches’ secretary-general Malusi Mpumlwana’s views that state capture was “undermining the ethical foundation of our society”. Mpumlwana  said this when he and two other civil organisations appeared before Parliament on Tuesday, about the effects of state capture on the economy of the country and its people. Booing of Gordhan subsided when he told the crowd state capture had led to the decline of international investment in the country, which severely affected the local economy. “This is how state capture happened. It started with state-owned entities. Capable people were removed from boards of most of these entities and ‘replaced with the right people’.” The “right people” being  those prepared to sell their souls and abuse the public purse for the benefit of a few families, he said. Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba fitted in this category for allegedly giving the Guptas SA citizenship without following proper procedures. Jonas was equally scathing about state capture. “We are becoming a world capital of corruption and state capture.” Eskom spent R45billion on coal contracts; Transnet spent R300bn to replace ageing rail infrastructure, but those billions were used to serve a single family’s interests, he said. “Those billions could’ve funded healthcare and education.” Daily News