According to Major-General Sally de Beer, the national police spokesperson, one helicopter is being serviced in Johannesburg and the other has been grounded because of “age and service ability”. De Beer said there were plans to replace the grounded helicopter, but processes have to be followed to do so. She said helicopters were serviced every 100 hours or 12 months, and the costs of each service varied. “The service includes repairing body corrosion as it operates in a coastal area. “This helicopter is due back in operation in August.” Dr Johan Burger, a senior researcher at the Crime, Justice and Politics Programme at the Institute for Security Studies, said the work of the airwing was two-fold and relied on working tools to effectively get the job done. “The airwing is a crucial strategic and operational asset, especially in KZN which has a large geographical area that must be covered by police. There are large parts of terrain which are often inaccessible to police vehicles and the airwing is able to access these areas,” he said. Burger added that the airwing was also needed, for example, during cash-in-transit heists. “These types of crimes need quick reaction from police and the choppers are normally the best vehicle to deploy to follow movement on the ground. In many ways, the choppers also serve as a deterrent,” said Burger. He felt it was either a question of poor management or an inadequate budget that hindered the fixing and maintenance of the helicopters. Sharing this sentiment was Zakhele Mbhele, the DA’s spokesperson on police, who said the police had been understaffed and underresourced for years, “particularly at station level”. “This is why the police have struggled to reduce violent organised crimes and other activities driven by criminal syndicates. “Because of poor leadership in the police portfolio, we have seen its politicisation instead of professionalisation, its capture by narrow interests instead of improving competence. Management quality has been effectively hollowed out by cronyism and cadre deployment,” he said. De Beer denied there were any issues regarding their management or budget for services. Daily News