Representatives of one of the groups, which has been demanding work at sites across the region, had a meeting with a construction company at a Cornubia project this week and, according to a well-placed source, threatened to close the site down if they did not get what they wanted. A municipal ward councillor, sporting an ANC shirt, accompanied them to the meeting but, after a query from the Daily News, told the eThekwini council Speaker, William Mapena, that he had never threatened any contractor. The group is demanding that their own community liaison officer be posted at the gate to the construction site and paid R10000 a month to see that the labour force is local. The so-called construction “grabbers” or “mafia” have been disrupting and halting work at various sites, and developers and municipalities across the region have been forced to take legal action to stop the various groups interfering in their projects. “It is an ongoing problem at construction sites with people turning up and wanting sub-contracting work,” said DA councillor Heinz de Boer on Thursday. The groups have now started to target projects at Cornubia, the massive, mixed-use development north of Durban, comprising residential, commercial and industrial sites. The road leading to offices and warehouses under construction was recently barricaded, blocking trucks from delivering materials to the sites. Police Men in a four-car convoy then arrived at one site demanding 30% of the work. The police were called and they left. It is not known which group they came from, but their cars were registered as being from uMhlanga, oThongathi and Hillcrest. But the same group was back at the same site on Tuesday, this time with the councillor. “We don’t understand what their problem is. About 95% of the workforce is local: it is not as if we are bringing in people from Pietermaritzburg. “And what happens if the other parties - the EFF, the IFP, the DA - also want the same? What do we do? Where is the money coming from?” the source asked. He pointed out that the contractor had tendered for the contract and the price was set. There was no money to pay anyone else. “They turn up when the work is 45% finished. The prospect is that once they are in, they will demand that their labour force goes on to the site, then their own electrician. They will end up controlling everything. “This is destroying the construction industry,” the source said, adding that he knew of one investor who had changed his mind about developing north of Durban because of these demands and was moving elsewhere. The construction company in question was now beefing up its security. The Daily News asked the council for its reaction to the alleged involvement of the councillor. Mapena said: “The matter has been investigated. The councillor concerned stated that, on behalf of the community, he has been meeting different businesses with the intention of seeking employment for the community. “He has met a number of contractors, both public and private, and in no instance has he threatened any contractor. However, he has engaged the contractor to employ people from the ward both as labourers and community liaison officers.” Daily News