Mchunu, who lost popularity in his home province after being ousted by current provincial chairperson, Sihle Zikalala, had been invited by an interim structure of the regional ANC Youth League, and ANC branch leadership in Thulamela Municipality’s Ward 32 as the keynote speaker on Saturday in promotion of Ramaphosa’s presidential campaign. Ramaphosa would be competing against former AU Commission chairperson, Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, to replace President Jacob Zuma at the December national conference in Johannesburg. The ANCYL had an event scheduled on the same day and had wanted Mchunu to address it. However, Anderson Mudumungu, ANC regional secretary, said the youth league had to postpone its gathering so that Mchunu could address the ANC in Vhembe, Ramaphosa’s home region. “The times in which comrade Senzo Mchunu is going to speak in both events were going to clash, which is why the youth league had to reschedule for another date, yet to be decided,” said Mudumungu. After his defeat at the ANC’s KZN elective conference in Pietermaritzburg three years ago, Mchunu disappeared from political activities, but when the ANC national leadership succession debate began unofficially early this year, Mchunu re-emerged, and was seen accompanying Ramaphosa on several occasions in this province. Mudumungu said both Mchunu and Ramaphosa have massive support in the region. “We want Mchunu to be on the top national leadership structure, either as national chairman or treasurer-general,” he said. He said the region was supporting Mchunu’s visit to campaign for Ramaphosa in the region “because the NEC (national executive committee) had said we can start to discuss leadership”. Values Mudumungu, who praised Ramaphosa as having leadership values and ethos, said the branch had invited Mchunu to talk “in terms of upholding ANC leadership principle”. “The ANC regional conference took a resolution that it supported the principle of the ANC that the deputy president should succeed the sitting president. “Comrade Senzo is grounded in the principles, aims and objectives of the ANC. Senzo is one of those comrades who can be relied on, he is one who can be trusted with the management of the activities and responsibilities of the ANC,” said Mudumungu. An ANC leader in Ward 32 could only confirm Mchunu’s visit, but declined to comment further saying that as branch leader he was not allowed to talk to the media. Mchunu last night confirmed he would travel to Vhembe. “I will have to go there. They are still briefing me about what they are expecting me to talk about,” he said. He said he was not “necessarily” going there to campaign for Ramaphosa, “but they want me to just address them”. “We normally campaign for the ANC rather than campaigning for Ramaphosa. I am going there to address ANC members. I would not have a problem talking about Ramaphosa as much as I would not have a problem talking about other people,” Mchunu said. Daily News