DURBAN – Opposition parties in the eThekwini Municipality are calling for the heads of officials said to be involved in more than R60 million worth of  irregular expenditure. This follows the condoning of irregular expenditure by the city during a recent full council sitting. The DA, IFP and EFF were not present at the council meeting due to a decision to move the meeting a day forward. Sharon Hoosen, DA chief whip in eThekwini, said officials involved in the expenditure should have been brought to book a long time ago. “This is a recurring issue. Contravening tender processes is a criminal offence. This is corruption and we look forward to seeing the results of the so-called investigation into the matter,” Hoosen said. She said her party did not condone the irregular expenditure on the basis that this was a result of poor planning and, therefore, was an unwarranted use of Section 36 of the Municipal Supply Chain Management Act to award the tenders. Section 36 allows officials to bypass normal tender processes. The ANC, being the majority, voted in support of condoning the expenditure totalling R34 079 576.54 for the 2015/16 financial year and R33 798 553.63 for 2016/17. In a report tabled at the council meeting, the municipality said disciplinary action, recovery of money and criminal charges could be instituted where applicable. This would be determined by the outcome of an investigation by the speaker, city manager, office of the ombudsman, line departments and the Municipal Public Accounts Committee. According to the report, 10 contracts worth more than R25 million, which were awarded using Section 36, were deemed to be irregular by the Internal Audit Unit and the Auditor General. More than R1 million was irregularly paid to municipal employees, while more than R5 million was lost to the irregular extension of contracts by the electricity department. Parks, Recreation and Culture incurred more than R1 million expenditure, also on contract extensions. Other departments implicated were Human Settlements and Trading Services. The KZN Treasury yesterday said it was tightening the screws on the municipal tender processes and that “in six months or so” there would be an implementation of a new mechanism to curb the breaching of tender processes. Advocate Siza Mthethwa, head of procurement in the KZN Treasury, said they had been working on ways to end tender irregularities and that mechanisms were in place to force government departments to consult with his department if they wanted to use Section 36. “The tender processing issue is receiving urgent attention from our department. For the municipalities, we have Regulation32, which we will enforce. “This provides for the use of a service provider from another municipality if a neighbouring municipality was in urgent need of the same services provided to its neighbour. “This will, in turn, curb the abuse of Section36 because, once this mechanism is in full swing, municipalities will have to consult the department if they need services urgently,” Mthethwa said. “We will then do our own assessment to ascertain if the services are indeed urgent and what caused the urgency.” Mthethwa said some of the municipalities were engaging companies which were contracted irregularly and that there was resistance when Regulation32 was proposed. “We experienced resistance, but we are back on track. I can say in six months or so we should have made progress in enforcing this mechanism,” Mthethwa said. IFP council member Mdu Nkosi called for action against those fingered in the investigation: “The main problem is the abuse of Section 36 due to poor planning. What are these officials being paid for if millions will be spent irregularly? We are looking at the city manager to do his job and people must be held accountable.” Ethekwini communications senior manager Mandla Nsele said an item on the Executive Committee supplementary agenda indicated that the goods and services had been received and value for money certified by the respective heads of departments. “The report further states that the contraventions of the supply chain management policy are being investigated and the investigating parties will decide on appropriate action where applicable. “This demonstrates the municipality’s commitment to clean governance and ensuring that the public purse is in good hands,” he said. Daily News