Phillip Moeketsi Ntsimane, head of eThekwini’s internal audit unit, became the latest on a list of at least 11 senior officials who have been fired or suspended, or who resigned from the municipality in the past 11 months. Ntsimane’s office was also involved in drafting the audit report for the third and fourth quarters of 2015/16, which found that permanent municipal employees were benefiting from the Expanded Public Works Programme, with the transgressions costing the programme more than R2.5 million during this period. The audit report was tabled at eThekwini’s Exco meeting in May. It was deferred to be tabled at the next meeting, but was not, the Daily News reported at the time. The Daily News has been reliably informed that Ntsimane will become Tshwane Metro’s chief audit executive from next month. Contacted for comment on Monday, Ntsimane asked to be called later, but did not respond to calls and messages. Opposition parties believe factionalism and political interference in the municipality’s administrative affairs has resulted in the exodus of senior officials. IFP Exco member Mdu Nkosi said the ANC “house” was divided. “Obviously there are those who were aligned with the previous leadership in the municipality. The biggest problem with the ANC is that they head hunt cadres without considering qualifications and experience. The camps issue is so deep that those who have fallen out of favour with a new administration are forced to leave, while some would be investigated and their shortcomings exposed,” Nkosi said. He said the exodus affected service delivery. The DA’s Zwakele Mncwango said the municipality was about to collapse. “Staff members are frustrated by the manner in which the administrative affairs are handled at the municipality. These positions should not be influenced by politics. How are these politicians getting involved in administrative issues?” Mncwango asked. Mthunzi Gumede, the mayor’s spokesperson, said there was no controversy around Ntsimane’s resignation. “He got a new job. It’s not clear why people would make noise whenever there is a resignation by a senior official. The mayor will respond to all the resignations at Exco today.” Daily News