During the municipality’s Executive Committee (Exco) sitting at the city hall on Tuesday, mayor Zandile Gumede, Krish Kumar, deputy city manager of finance, and acting city manager Sipho Cele could not answer direct questions on whether proper procurement policies were followed when the dogs were bought. They were bought from Denel Land Systems in Pretoria, a division of arms manufacturer Denel SOC Ltd, for R1 230 915. Opposition parties demanded an explanation for this expenditure. In response, Gumede said the issue and others would be addressed properly at a special Exco meeting on Monday. Heinz de Boer, DA councillor, wanted to know how the municipality spent more than R60 000 on one dog in the current financial climate. He said it was the first time he had seen a financial statement on the transaction. “What is special about these dogs? Have they maybe been given some special training? “You can get a thoroughbred German shepherd or Labrador for less than R10 000. It doesn’t take a rocket scientist to tell you that the price paid for these dogs is exorbitant,” De Boer said. He said the Metro Police was a unit not open to public scrutiny and political oversight. “We’re not going to let this go without an explanation. Political oversight is the duty of councillors, so if heads must roll then heads must roll,” De Boer said. Mdu Nkosi, of the IFP,  said the acquisition of the dogs was questionable. “It is strange that when questions are posed, the mayor and officials fail to respond, with the mayor opting to have officials go and seek answers for another day. All we need to know is if proper processes were followed when purchasing these dogs,” Nkosi said. Gumede called for the matter and other issues to be addressed on Monday. Units “Come Monday, we are going to deal with these issues. We can’t have our fellow councillors having to account for issues which fall under certain units within the city. Krish, take note of all these issues and questions so that they are dealt with accordingly”. The Sunday Tribune, the Daily News’s sister paper, reported in June on the dogs - 10 for patrol, five to detect explosives and five to detect narcotics. The company confirmed the deal that was negotiated and signed off by an operational constable, while a deputy head in the supply chain operations accepted the offer and signed off the letter of award. A senior Metro Police official told the Daily News on Tuesday that metro dog handlers were not aware of the 20-dog purchase. “What’s worse is that the handlers were to be sent to Pretoria for training with these dogs, something that has never happened before in the history of the Metro Police,” said the official. Attempts to get comment from Eugene Nzama, Metro Police head and Sbu Sithole, former eThekwini municipal manager, were unsuccessful last night. Daily News