Mapisa-Nqakula said on Tuesday moves were afoot to tighten security at the country’s borders, following an increase in the number of poachers from outside. The government also wanted to ensure there was no illegal migration after being slammed by MPs over the years for the poor control of borders. Mapisa-Nqakula also said she hoped the Border Management Authority Bill would soon be promulgated to allow for a single agency to control the borders. The agency would force the merger of different departments and agencies involved with the borders to fall under one roof. Mapisa-Nqakula said they were looking at how best to improve security at the borders. She was addressing media on the fight against rhino poaching together with Environmental Affairs Minister Edna Molewa and State Security Minister David Mahlobo. Molewa said rhino poaching dropped from 542 rhino killed last year, between January and June, to 529 during the same period this year. The three ministers said rhino poaching was a serious threat to the country, and security agencies had to clamp down on the scourge. Mapisa-Nqakula said President Jacob Zuma had set up an Inter-Ministerial Committee to deal with security at South Africa’s border with Mozambique, and that ministers from South Africa are to meet with their counterparts from that country. Fence The decision to bring down the fence between Mozambique and South Africa was taken during the time of former president Nelson Mandela in the 1990s to create a transfrontier park. “A decision was taken by Mandela and former president of Mozambique (Joaquim) Chissano that we should do away with the high fence,” she said. “However, the situation has changed. I don’t think at the time they anticipated rhino poaching and illegal migration. We now have problems,” she said. They also hoped the BMA Bill would be able to create co-ordination in government in managing the borders. The single agency would bring various departments controlling the borders together. Mapisa-Nqakula said South Africa had a long border and needed to find better and effective ways of managing it. “We are looking at various initiatives. We have to tighten border control in South Africa,” she said. Molewa said collaboration with law enforcement agencies had led to the decline in rhinos poached during the first six months of the year. She said better co-ordination with all the agencies would strengthen the fight against rhino poaching. Daily News