This comes after the institution and the SAPS met with Khoza on Friday following a security assessment that was conducted when she received death threats. Moloto Mothapo, Parliament spokesperson, said on Tuesday Khoza had indicated on Friday that she would first consult with her family and revert with a decision by the end of last weekend. “Both Parliament and the SAPS are still awaiting Dr Khoza’s decision,” Mothapo said. “Parliament wishes to state that all security arrangements regarding Khoza are ready for activation as soon as she indicates acceptance of the ­support,” he said. Last week, Parliament said the security assessment confirmed that a security threat existed, and that appropriate support should be provided to Khoza. This was after death threats heightened, with her daughter also being threatened, and the outspoken MP being warned that her days were numbered. Khoza has been vocal in calling for President Jacob Zuma to step down, and even wrote to Speaker Baleka Mbete asking her to decide on a secret ballot on the motion of no-confidence scheduled for August 8. Her outburst drew the ire of the ANC in KwaZulu-Natal in particular, which has threatened to haul her over the coals for apparently bringing the party into disrepute. Although on Tuesday was understood to be the deadline for serving her with the charges, at the time of going to press there was no confirmation that she had been served. Neither Khoza nor ANC spokesperson Mdumi­seni Ntuli could be reached. Contacted before lunch, Ntuli would not confirm whether Khoza had been served with charges. “I have no knowledge, but she was supposed to get it today (Tuesday),” he said. Ntuli, who was visiting schools before lunch as part of the provincial legislature programme, had promised to get confirmation, but he did not respond to calls and text messages after 3pm. Khoza could also not be reached on her cellphone, which went unanswered and messages were not returned. However, party insiders said the charges were on Tuesday still being formulated by the provincial disciplinary committee headed by Nomagugu Simelane-Zungu. Breaking ranks The ANC has previously stated that Khoza would be charged before the end of the week for breaking ranks with the ruling ANC regarding the pending vote of no-confidence against Zuma. She has called for the governing party’s MPs to be afforded an opportunity to vote with their conscience through a secret ballot. The outspoken Khoza had also addressed public forums, where she had made her stance publicly known, much to the ­annoyance of the ANC, especially in her home province. Ntuli has stated that the suspension of Khoza was not yet on the cards despite her facing a string of disciplinary charges. Daily News