This was the criticism from the DA on Monday. However, the Hawks said they were investigating the possibility of a syndicate being responsible for the political killings in the province. Sithole, 39, was shot four times by unknown men while on his way to renew his driver’s licence in March. In April, Richmond deputy mayor Thandazile Phoswa was fatally shot in her home in the Ndaleni area. Toll Richmond ANC councillor Sfiso Mkhize was gunned down last month while on his way home, bringing the death toll of municipal officials in the area to three. Last week, former ANC Youth League general-secretary Sindiso Magaqa and his two councillor colleagues, Nonsikelelo Mafa and Jabu Mzizi, were attacked by unknown gunmen in the uMzimkhulu Municipality. They are currently in hospital. Dean Macpherson, DA MP, said it was concerning that it was 133 days since Sithole’s death and police had still not made an arrest or provided an update on their investigation. “It was no secret that Sithole was a crusader against corruption in the municipality and supported the DA’s objection to Co-operative Governance MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube to appoint more full-time councillors in the cash-strapped municipality,” he said. Macpherson also questioned why Sithole’s assassination was not part of the premier’s commission of inquiry into the political killings in the province, which began this week. Blessed Gwala, IFP provincial leader, said the police were not entirely to blame for the lack of arrests. He felt the ANC leaders were responsible for the murders. “The problem in KZN is the lack of good political leadership. The ANC leaders are not concentrating on the responsibilities they are given, that is why people are dying. Task teams are appointed one after the other and we never hear of their reports,” said Gwala. Ndabezinhle Sibiya, the premier’s spokesperson, rejected the DA’s allegations, saying it was aimed at creating divisions and misleading the people of KwaZulu-Natal. Sibiya said the places visited by the Moerane Commission of Inquiry included Richmond and uMzimkhulu. He said the premier’s office was exploring the possibility of other inquiry sittings into the political killings in uMzimkhulu and Richmond. Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi, Hawks spokesperson, said while there had been no arrests, it did not mean there were no successes. Mulaudzi said they were working on the bigger picture of a possible syndicate being behind the spate of political killings in the province. He said political killings were planned, and to crack these cases police required information. “We have made cases of political killings a priority, and we are working around the clock to solve them,” said Mulaudzi. Daily News