PARLIAMENT: KwaZulu-Natal has been named among the six provincial education departments negotiating with their provincial treasury counterparts to secure money for their combined R639 million budget shortfall in the pupil transport programme. The programme was funded to the tune of R2.3billion in 2016-17 by the national government. Its budget is not ring-fenced, a move that has prompted pressure group Equal Education to actively campaign for a special grant to be created so that the programme can be adequately funded. Responding to a written parliamentary question, Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga named Eastern Cape, KZN, Limpopo, Mpumalanga, Northern Cape and North West as provinces negotiating with their provincial treasuries. She said the six provinces had not made requests for additional funding for the pupil transport programme, despite reporting a budget shortfall. “Information received from the said provinces indicates that the provinces have not, as yet, requested additional funding from the National Treasury to cover the shortfall in their 2017-18 pupil transport budgets,” she said. “However, discussions are under way within the provincial departments to seek mechanisms to address the shortages from their respective provincial budgets,” Motshekga said. In May, the department reported that a total of 556294 pupils were in need of transport, but 459598 would be ­covered this financial year. Gauteng led with the highest number of pupils set to benefit from the programme with 109618, followed by the Eastern Cape with 78061 pupils, Mpumalanga with 60119 and the Western Cape with 58217 pupils. The other provinces, including KZN, had a number of pupils on the programme, ranging between 11929 and 47747. Motshekga recently said that 465977 pupils were using pupil transport as at April this year. In a separate parliamentary reply, Motshekga said the demand for pupil transport was expected to decrease between 2016-17 and 2017-18 in the Eastern Cape and Northern Cape. She attributed this to rationalisation, mergers and the ­closure of some schools, as well as the verification of pupils who qualified to benefit from the service. In KZN, the number was increasing due to the rationalisation of schools, and Limpopo projected an increase in demand due to the relocation of communities from areas where there were schools to formal settlements that were without schools. KZN had 47747 pupils on the programme. Motshekga said criteria used to choose qualifying pupils took into account various factors. “Pupil transport will be to the nearest appropriate school only, and not to a school of parental choice. Priority must be given to pupils with disabilities, taking into consideration the nature of the disability,” she added. Daily News