VOASA spokesperson Alex Bosch said: “Our members have made it their priority to attend meetings and timeously provide all requested documentation. "We are looking forward to our opportunity to present this to the inquiry panel at the public hearings as we firmly believe that this information is key in its fact-finding approach to providing solutions that will yield a positive outcome for all.” The hearings are in the  third leg of the National Consumer Commission’s South African tour. The commission, which sat in Durban on Monday and Tuesday, listened to people who made presentations about how they believed they were conned by companies selling timeshare, with some saying their retirement plans had been ruined. One of the people who felt hard done by was 70-year-old Nomthandazo Mdanda. The retired nurse said in 1999 she bought timeshare with Flexi-Club worth more than R3000 to use at Cabana and Westbrook Beach, on the KwaZulu-Natal North Coast, after being approached by a salesman. Mdanda, of uMlazi, said she wanted to use the timeshare to take her son, who has a disability, to the beach during the holidays. She later found out she could not use it during peak periods. An angry Mdanda said she was then told to convert the timeshare she had into points. As she could not use the timeshare when she wanted to, Mdanda said she wanted to cancel the contract, but was told she would have to sell it at R11 a share. “It would have been at a loss,” she said. “In 2014, I decided to cancel the contract and get the little money that I had. But I did not get anything from it,” Mdanda said. She said she wanted to get some of her money back after being with the company for more than a decade. She had planned to enjoy the timeshare as part of her retirement plans. Another unhappy consumer, Hillcrest resident David Hayes, said he bought timeshare with Holiday Club and the problem was that the levies for it shot up from R4000 in 2014 to more than R10500 within three years. The retired engineer said the levies had now become unaffordable. “My problem is that I want out,” he said. He asked Holiday Club if they could buy the points back, but was told they could not. He then tried selling it to Cape Escape, a company that specialises in selling timeshare points, but realised  he would be selling at a loss if he did. He spent more than R60000 buying the points. “How do you get out of this?” he asked. Hayes advised people to get a lawyer before they signed a contract, “Or you will end up being a sucker like me.” He even considered emigrating to escape the charges that were being levied against him. He felt misled. “What makes me angry is that the guy (the salesman) lied to me.” From talking to people, he realised there were many others in the same predicament. The next lot of hearings are in the North West province. Daily News