This was after the party shot down a regeneration imbizo planned for 10 hostels around eThekwini, including Glebelands. The imbizo is tentatively set for Monday in Montclair. This is subject to change to ensure all interested hostel residents can attend. The hostels face high levels of anti-social behaviour, substance abuse and poverty. About 12000 people are expected to attend the event that will consist of prayers, traditional dancing, displays by government departments and messages from political leaders. What got the DA hot under the collar was the amount to be spent on the event - an estimated R3.028 million. The report submitted to Exco stated that the imbizo would be organised in partnership with the faith-based sector and other partners. It said the single-sex residential complex was the creation of the past South African political administration and over the years, the residents faced challenges. According to the report, 20buses were hired for R100000 to ferry hostel dwellers to the venue. Zwakele Mncwango, provincial DA leader, said the council could not spend more than R3m on the event. “How will this event change the lives of those hostel dwellers? When we go to these hostels, we don’t spend so much money, yet we engage with the people living there,” Mncwango said. Conditions His colleague, Heinz de Boer, said the money could rather be channelled towards alleviating the hostels’ poor living conditions. “Where are you going to get 12000 people on a Monday morning? How are you going to get them to the venue with only 20buses?” asked De Boer. Another DA member, Sharon Hoosen, said: “Nothing will come out of this expenditure.” Mayor Zandile Gumede cautioned the DA, saying the event, and how it was organised, was intended to treat hostel people with dignity She said the purpose was to spread the word on moral regeneration. Her deputy, Fawzia Peer, said there was a need for a certain amount of maturity in handling such issues. “It is not about the money, but the people whose lives are faced with social ills. We know that there are problems at hostels and this imbizo will bring people together. The mayor is going to listen to residents’ concerns to show that we are a caring city,” Peer said. Mondli Mthembu, Human Settlements and Infrastructure Committee chairperson, said the imbizo was a precursor to things that would be done at the hostels to ensure that further interventions made would not be met with hostility. The DA’s objection to the event was also criticised by the IFP, who felt that “all is well” when programmes are meant for uMhlanga and Durban North. “I’m concerned that there will be so much negative talk about a programme like this. Is it because this is meant for the poor hostel residents? This will be an opportunity for people to talk about the social ills in hostels including the killings, some of which are not even committed there. This programme is a good idea,” Nkosi said. Daily News