“In its current form, the act does not make provision for the establishment of an independent board, hence the interference by the minister, Bathabile Dlamini, in Sassa operations,” spokesperson Khaya Xaba said on Thursday. “This arrangement leaves any chief executive vulnerable to either accede to the unreasonable instructions from the powers that be, or face the chop.” Sassa chief executive Thokozani Magwaza quit the post earlier this week after he faced death threats, and was pressured to quit while negotiating a partnership with the South African Post Office on the distribution of social grants. His departure sparked outrage from interested stakeholders amid fears the takeover of payment of social grants from Cash Paymaster Services might be in jeopardy come April 2018. Xaba said the explanation by the department that Dlamini and Magwaza had entered into an agreement was a public relations exercise meant to mislead the public. “It is strange that the services of the chief executive of a strategic agency in the country can be terminated without valid and/or sound reasons,” he said. Zoleka Capa, social development portfolio committee chairperson, has invited the union to make a presentation on their proposal. “We are willing to listen to them,” Capa said. “It is important that they approach Parliament. This is a people’s Parliament. This is an activist’s Parliament,” Capa said. “We appreciate that they are concerned,” she said. Themba Godi, chairperson of the Standing Committee on Public Accounts, was cautious about the proposals, saying Sassa was unique and strategically important compared to other state-owned enterprises. “It calls on political leaders to appreciate the strategic importance of Sassa, and act accordingly, rather than treat it as an ordinary entity that is out there,” Godi said. He also said there had not been an appetite in the past to move into the direction proposed by Nehawu. “If you want a Sassa that will become like the SABC, it will be delinquent and fall apart,” he said. Sassa, the SA Social Security Agency, pays out social grants to more than 17 million beneficiaries through Cash Paymaster Services, whose contract expires next March. The IFP’s Liezl van der Merwe said her party would support, in principle, any measure to stop Dlamini in her “rampage” in the department. However, she had reservations over whether the proposal would see the light of the day. “Its feasibility and being passed by Parliament is another story,” Van der Merwe said. The DA’s Bridget Masango said her party caucus had not discussed the proposal. “When one looks at the power of the minister, it is really a worry,” Masango said. “We can see that the minister has too much power to interfere with operations,” she said. Daily News