The pair are accused of killing Llewelyn Edwards, an alleged leader of a Wentworth gang, after an argument outside Lavo Nightclub (formerly Hip Hop Palace) on July 2. The State had opposed bail and cited fears of intimidation of witnesses and the pair’s safety, but magistrate Mahomed Motala said the two qualified for bail and gave Joseph, the father, the benefit of the doubt that he would plead his case in court. It is alleged that Joseph drew his firearm and fired five shots at Edwards’ leg, arm and body. Edwards died in hospital a few hours later. Detective Warrant Officer Gerhard Grobler yesterday testified in opposition to bail, saying the pair knew the witnesses who may implicate them and argued that the degree of intimidation of witnesses in the case should not be underestimated. He said Edwards was unarmed, which contradicted Joseph’s claim of self-defence. Grobler testified that Joseph had previous convictions - two of assault in 1991 and 2004, and one of drunken driving in 2011. “Looking at Joseph’s criminal profile, these cases are violence-related and I fear that if he is released, he could continue this habit of escalated violence,” he said. In Joseph’s statement read out to the court through his attorney, Abdul Karrim, he says he owns a security company, which he has run for the past 17 years. Joseph argued he acted in self-defence and would state his case in court. Joseph admitted firing two shots into the ground to warn Edwards. He claimed that when the shots did not deter him, he fired three shots in succession and Edwards was hit. He said he shot Edwards with his licensed firearm, which he said he handed over to the police when he was arrested. He said Edwards was arguing with some other people outside the club and a third party intervened to stop the confrontation. Watching “He then noticed me watching from across the road and walked towards me. I fired shots to the ground and when they didn’t deter him from coming towards me with his firearm, I fired at him. It was an act of private defence. Shooting at the deceased was not premeditated, but was a reaction to a threat on my life and safety. “I respectfully submit that my defence and lawfulness thereof can only be tested and established at the trial,” he said. Motala granted Joseph R5000 bail and Juade was released on R1000 bail. He said although Juade’s involvement was not yet clear, they were both charged with a serious offence of murder. “Discharging a firearm in a crowd and in public could cause a dangerous situation. It is, however, not a duty of this court to establish if you acted in a situation of threat. I assume that it was not something planned. “Notwithstanding the evidence by the police, that no firearm was found on the deceased or whether someone had taken his firearm away at the scene, is something I cannot speculate,” said Motala. He said the fact that Joseph had previous convictions of assault, committed when he was 19 years old and another 13 years ago, held no substance because this was a long time ago and they were not serious convictions. Daily News