Other clinics are apparently borrowing from neighbouring clinics and patients have already begun to feel the pinch. When a 64-year-old Redhill resident visited the Firwood Road Clinic to collect her chronic medication, the nurse allegedly on two occasions could not check her blood sugar levels, telling her that the glucometer was faulty. She became extremely worried about her health as she was given the medication 
without knowing her blood- sugar levels. The patient does not own a glucometer and the only time she can test her blood sugar level is during her monthly appointments at the clinic. “I was worried because the test gives me an indication of whether the medication I am on is still working and if my efforts at following a diabetic diet are helping,” she said. The problem has placed a further burden on the overcrowded clinics in Ntuzuma and Newlands East. One complaint from staff is that they have been waiting for more than a month for gloves to be delivered. At Inanda Clinic, a source said they were about to run out of some supplies, including syringes. “We are making plans to borrow from neighbouring clinics to avoid a situation where we completely run out. At the moment we are using what we have sparingly.” Ward 34 councillor Bobby Maharaj said there were 
shortages of supplies such as insulin syringes, gloves, needles and Lancet blades at most clinics. The shortages had led to patients not getting proper health-care services. He said at Firwood Road Clinic, which was servicing patients within the Redhill and Greenwood Park area as well as from KwaMashu, sugar-testing and blood-pressure machines had been broken for a while and had not been replaced. “I have verified this and I have taken it upon myself to ask a local private doctor and a local pharmacy to donate at least the blood-sugar testing machine to the clinic. “Blood pressure and diabetes is one of the most dangerous killers. The patients need to be checked every time they go for their chronic medication,” said Maharaj. Shontel de Boer, DA PR councillor for Newlands East, said last week they had received complaints about clinics in the Durban area that had run out of various medical supplies. She said a meeting was held and the word from the municipality was that the suppliers - particularly the suppliers of gloves - were in the process of getting them delivered. The provincial Health Department yesterday referred the matter to the eThekwini Municipality. Municipal spokesperson Tozi Mthethwa said they were aware of the problems and were working on addressing them as quickly as possible through their Supply Chain Management division. “The requisition of Lancet (blades) and insulin syringes is in the final stages and they will be delivered soon. “The issue of gloves has been resolved and the supplier has delivered stock to all facilities. The insulin syringes will be delivered to all clinics soon,” she said. Daily News