He said this came as mediation with the SAPS at the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA) stopped at the weekend. Skommere said the Police and Prisons Civil Rights Union (Popcru) was making an application to be part of the negotiations. Popcru was part of the negotiations earlier in the year before the strike began last week. “They, however, said Sapu jumped the gun when we went on strike,” Skommere said. There is no love lost between the two unions because both claim to be the majority union. Skommere said many members of their union had dual memberships and this would be resolved by the courts. “Negotiations will start again on Friday,” Skommere said. Richard Mamabolo, Popcru spokesperson, referred to the Sapu action as a “bogus strike”, saying it was collapsing. He argued that the union should have continued with negotiations earlier in the year before breaking away and embarking on a strike. Mamabolo said his union did not want to go on strike at that time, because it felt it would not serve the interests of the workers. Instead, it wanted to go the legal route and through negotiations. Majority He denied there was a court dispute between Sapu and Popcru on which body was the majority union. “We are the majority union. We always have been,” Mamabolo said. He said the union was still waiting to hear from the CCMA on when they would have a meeting. Brigadier Vishnu Naidoo, police head of operational service relations, said he could not comment on the negotiations because they were still ongoing with the unions and wanted to “allow the process to happen”. Naidoo said the SAPS knew beforehand that the strike was going to take place and had put plans in place. “Everything went successfully,” he said. The strike comes to a temporary close. Workers were fighting for a salary increase as well as an upgrade, which Sapu said it was promised when Riah Phiyega was the national police commissioner. However, nothing came of it since her suspension. The call centre employees had told the media they felt let down by the police. Daily News