The ANC in KwaZulu-Natal on Wednesday served Khoza, a member of the National Assembly, with a notice of disciplinary charges just two weeks before the August 8 parliamentary ­motion of no-confidence against President Jacob Zuma. Khoza, who has been the most vocal critic of Zuma and repeatedly called on the president to step down, was yesterday served with a charge sheet. She is accused of breaching 11 party rules, including being “disrespectful to the KZN provincial executive committee”. According to the charge sheet, which the Daily News has seen, Khoza was accused of “behaving in a manner which provokes or is likely to provoke or has the potential to provoke division or impact negatively on the unity of the ANC”. The outspoken MP has also been charged with bringing the ANC into disrepute through her utterances, and failing to execute or complying with any ANC policy, standing order, rule, regulation or resolution adopted in terms of the party’s constitution. In Khoza’s Facebook page statement on Wednesday, she said Ravi Pillay, Human Settlements MEC, had called her telling her that her hearing would be on September 10. Khoza said she was consulting with her lawyer on the matter. In statements, annexured A to E, attached to the charge sheet, the ANC said Khoza had, between July 6 and July 24, made various public statements on her Facebook page and in speeches that individually or collectively breached one or more stated rules of the ANC constitution. “The statements were made outside party structures of the organisation. Indeed, you refused or failed to use the opportunity provided by the national policy conference, which you attended, to legitimately raise your views on the platform provided,” the charge sheet read. In a speech delivered at the Conference for the Future of South Africa on July 18, Khoza said: “The ANC demise is at President Zuma’s hands. For leadership can never be a synonym of victimhood. None of us want to be led by a president whose main phrase is ‘Angazi’ (I do not know). All challenges are blamed to somebody else and never himself.” ‘Clever black’ Khoza went on to say “when black intellectuals express their views, and President Zuma does not agree with them, he sarcastically labels them ‘clever black’.” “Please, Mr President, step down and respect those who elected you. Eleven million South Africans voted for the ANC and inadvertently voted you, Mr President, in power and not just 1 million ANC members,” her speech read. On Wednesday, Khoza said in her statement that she was raised in an ANC that spoke truth to power, and that she spoke truth to power in the 80s and 90s, and wanted to belong to an ANC that still values its founding principles. “I’m being persecuted because I can no longer toe the party line. I cannot accept corruption, looting, a disregard for the people who brought us to power and the propping up of growing kleptocracy. “My ANC suffocates reason, morality and ethical behaviour. My statements in the recent past simply mirror that which millions of South Africans have been saying, they have had enough,” Khoza said. She added that to side with the ANC of today required her to disregard her moral fibre and she would no longer be willing to be an apologist for an organisation and a leader that had “lost its way”. Super Zuma, ANC provincial secretary, said Khoza had now been charged and there would be no more public discussions. “She is permitted to be represented at the hearing, preferably by another ANC member in good standing,” Mdumiseni Ntuli, ANC provincial spokesperson, told ANA. He said it was not ANC policy to make public the charge sheet. Daily News