Professor Bernard Janse van Rensburg, SASOP president, said a massive specialist staffing crisis existed in the province where only 20 of the 45 specialist posts were filled. “With physical beds missing, others not in use due to flooding caused by the non-repair of damaged roofs after a storm in 2015, and no water or food at some hospitals, including Umzimkhulu in KZN, like so many others across the country, the most fundamental basic human rights of patients are under threat,” said Janse van Rensburg. In a recent parliamentary response to questions by the DA, the health department said it had allocated R851116737 to psychiatric care for the 2017/18 financial year. Of this amount, NGOs received just over R16million. There are 26 psychiatrists in the province for 19 health-care facilities. Five of these facilities have no psychiatrists, two have a visiting psychiatrist once a week, while the rest have between one and four psychiatrists among themselves. Dr Imran Keeka, the DA’s Health spokesperson said the “ill-fated” freezing of critical department posts by the premier’s office in 2015 had resulted in “the chickens coming home to roost”. “While the Health Department announced in November 2015 that the moratorium was lifted for health-care posts, the red-tape remained. It has made a mockery of a functional system of recruitment and placement,” Keeka said. To make matters worse, he said, the Health portfolio committee heard from the acting chief financial officer that - since the department’s finances were in such dire straits - it would not be able to maintain the level of care currently available to the people of KZN and that there would be a further cut in filling about 2000 posts. “This will include specialities such as psychiatry, which is often put at the back of the queue,” he said. “My visit to Townhill Specialised Psychiatric Hospital two months ago confirmed that the shortages of specialists and equipment, and alterations in the essential drug list, had had frightful consequences. “There was no indication of a positive trajectory any time soon. The premier must accept responsibility for this calamity,” Keeka said. Charlene Sunkel, programme manager: advocacy and development at the SA Federation for Mental Health, said the lack of psychiatrists directly affected the mental health- care users who required specialist services. “It is time that the government took the implementation of the Mental Health Policy Framework seriously. Ultimately, adequate mental health care and services is a human right,” Sunkel said. The SA Depression and Anxiety Group (Sadag) said it was concerning that there were few posts filled when there was such a need for psychiatrists in government hospitals and clinics. Strain Cassey Chambers, Sadag operations director, said not having enough psychiatrists put an additional strain on an already strained system where there were not enough psychiatric wards and not enough medication, among other shortages. “It means that patients have less access to mental health treatment or have to wait a much longer time to get the help they need,” Chambers said. The department did not respond to questions e-mailed on Thursday requesting comment on the matter. The provincial government said it was working with the department in trying to resolve the various challenges. Ndabezinhle Sibiya, Premier Willies Mchunu’s spokesperson, said budget cuts were the cause of the department’s troubles. “Oncology and psychiatry are receiving special attention in the provincial government intervention and engagement with the department. The provincial executive council has intervened in the department’s challenges,” Sibiya said. Daily News