Businessman Ashraf Aziz, 37, ran a fresh produce distribution and wholesale business from his home in Temple Valley. Prem Balram, Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa) spokesperson, said it was alleged that four men arrived at Aziz’s home just before midday on Wednesday. They were said to be travelling in a blue Hyundai IX35. “The driver had hooted and pressed the intercom at the driveway gate.  Aziz was expecting a customer to arrive and pick up stock when he opened the driveway gate. Aziz’s wife and staff were in the storeroom when the men pretended to be buying potatoes,” said Balram. It is alleged that three of the men got out of the car and asked for Aziz, before drawing their guns and forcing his wife into the house. Balram said two of the men entered the house. “Aziz heard screams when he exited his bedroom. He allegedly shot one of the suspects twice, once in the abdomen and a second time in the face. The second suspect then allegedly shot Aziz in the head before the rest of them fled in their getaway vehicle,” Balram said. Balram said Rusa paramedics stabilised the critically injured Aziz at the scene before taking him to hospital where he later died. The shot robber, who lay in a pool of blood in the passage of the house, was pronounced dead. Balram said soon after the incident and while paramedics and Rusa were at the scene, two men apparently walked up to one of the neighbours standing on the road and asked if the robber was dead. They then walked away. Balram and his team tried to track down the men, but they had fled.  Balram added that a CZ 75 pistol belonging to the robber was recovered at the scene. Mohamed Tariq, a member of the Aleemia Musjid in Phoenix, said Aziz regularly assisted them with feeding schemes by providing the fresh produce. Tariq said he was shocked to hear the news and rushed over to try and help the family. Aziz leaves behind two children, a daughter, 7, and son, 3. It is not clear if staff and the children witnessed the shooting. Aziz was a popular businessman at the Verulam fresh produce market where he supplied his goods. Police spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said it was unclear what items were taken from the house. Police are investigating a case of murder and house robbery. An inquest docket has been lodged in relation to the dead suspect. Daily News  Like us on
Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 