During a visit to the hostel as part of the Cabinet's Operation Sukuma Sakhe day on Wednesday, the  Transport, Community Safety and Liaison MEC, Mxolisi Kaunda, assured residents that government was taking their safety seriously. He said it was confirmed to him by the municipal disaster management unit that 67 CCTV cameras were installed around the hostel. “Of these 67 cameras, only one seemed to have a problem and I have asked that it be attended to urgently. These cameras are monitored by the police around the clock and so progress is made in arresting people for various crimes including murder, attempted murder, and for stolen cars which were found in this hostel,” Kaunda said. He said the radius of the cameras’ view reached the N2 near Prospecton, and the police could zoom in to identify a vehicle's registration number. “If a car is moving towards Port Shepstone the police can identify its registration, thanks to these cameras. Community members are also needed to play their role in assisting the police to crack down on criminals,” he said. On the slow rate at which cases were finalised, Kaunda said police worked on evidence but prosecutions were unlikely if there was no solid evidence. “We can't push the police to say they must rush. We are monitoring the police and there are instances where people will say cases are not processed in court. Once the police are left to work alone we will not get the envisaged outcomes on investigations. People should come forward with evidence. For those who are scared, there are necessary measures in place. What we did previously was we relocated witnesses from the area of focus until the investigation and the case were completed,” he said. Asked if the visit to the hostel was inspired by the Public Protector's report on Glebelands, Kaunda said: “All the relevant departments implicated in the report have consolidated their responses with regards to the findings of the report.” Residents said life had changed since the Public Protector's intervention after the killing of more than 60 residents over a two-year period (2015/16). Residents Ntsumpula Zingelwayo and Bongiwe Khuzwayo said police were visible and on  certain nights they searched  rooms door-to-door. “We don't complain because this should have happened a long time ago when the killings started. They remain here all night and that is a relief. The cameras and the fence also bring a sense of security,” they said. Daily News