A SAPS Search and Rescue officer and his dog found one of his accomplices hiding at the edge of the river, almost three hours after the men leapt into the river. A third man was arrested by police, and two more are on the run. The gang held up staff and patrons at Hollywood Bets in Aloefield Crescent. Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane, provincial police spokesperson, said five men stormed into the business and demanded cellphones and money from patrons. “They took cellphones from staff and customers at Hollywood Bets. They made off with an undisclosed amount of money. A customer was shot in the leg. “Police are investigating a case of attempted murder, business robbery and possession of an unlicensed firearm,” he said. Two patrons, who entered the popular eatery during the robbery, said they were ordered to hand over their valuables. “One of the men pointed a gun at my friend and took his money. The man then turned to me and took my money. They told us to lie down on the floor. The place was fairly busy. There must have been at least 30 people inside,” said the patron who did not want to be named. When the gang had taken their loot, a shot was fired as they fled, injuring one of the patrons in the leg. Two of the patrons inside chased them. It is alleged that the armed robber shot at the men chasing him. The five robbers jumped into the uMngeni River. Two managed to get away, while a third man was arrested and found with an unlicensed firearm. The fourth man hid at the water’s edge for almost three hours. People from a nearby trucking yard heard shouts for help from the fifth man before he disappeared under the water. The SAPS Search and Rescue team arrived a short while later to search for the drowned man. Sergeant Colin Chetty and his dog, Ghost, began searching the area where the man was last seen. Thirty minutes into the search, Ghost spotted the fourth man. Police pulled him out of the water and he was arrested. The search for the fifth man was called off because of bad light. The search was expected to resume this morning. Daily News