Durban High Court  Acting Judge Xolile Ntshulana on Tuesday ruled in a trial-within-a-trial that the State had failed to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the pointing out of the firearms and police uniforms and the confession statements were done voluntarily. He ruled them to be inadmissible in the main trial. He reserved his reasons for the ruling until judgment in the main trial. Sabelo Mkhize, 26, Lindokuhle Mchunu, 18 and Sboniso Khubisa, 19, have pleaded not guilty to the murder of Sergeant Vusumuzi Moyana and attempted murder of  Constable Ntombikayise Precious Jojisa in September 2015. It is alleged that the trio went to Inanda police station on September 22, 2015 and sought help from the police to serve a “letter of demand” at a house in the area. According to the State, soon after their arrival at the house, Moyana and Jojisa were confronted by Khubisa and Mchunu who were both armed. The two police officers were robbed of their firearms. It is alleged the men ordered the officers into the house where they were forced to remove all their clothes, except for their underwear and then told to return to their patrol van. They were then locked in the back of the police van and allegedly driven by one of the men to a spot near the waterfall in the Engcucwini area. The accused then allegedly tried to set the van alight with the officers inside by firing at the petrol tank, but this failed. It’s also alleged that they fired shots at the officers before leaving them for dead. Moyana’s body and Jojisa were found on the same day, with multiple gunshot wounds. Jojisa survived and was airlifted to hospital, where she spent more than a month in high care. The trio were arrested the next day and allegedly confessed and led the police to where they had hidden the officers’ firearms and uniforms. During arguments in the trial-within-a-trial, the defence said the accused were assaulted from the day of arrest and argued that the confessions were made out of fear. Khubisa, Mchunu and Mkhize’s lawyers argued their clients had only revealed the evidence of assault later because they feared for their lives and their families. During the trial, the defence had pictures showing their clients’ injuries from the alleged assault. The State had argued that they were assaulted after the confessions were made. Mchunu’s legal representative, advocate Mondli Xulu, questioned why the police would assault the men after they had willingly made confessions. “They were assaulted the previous day and were forced to make confessions the following day. They were still in a state of fear,” said Xulu. The trial continues on Wednesday. Daily News