DURBAN -Honoris United Universities is the first African private higher education network bringing together the leading tertiary education institutions in north and southern Africa for the first time.
It will harness the collaborative intelligence and the pioneering efforts of these institutions to educate Africa’s next generation of leaders and professionals. The network joins the expertise of its member institutions to create pan-regional profile graduates that are competitive in today’s fast-paced and demanding labour markets. It gathers a community of 27 000 students on 48 campuses, learning centres and online, in nine countries and 30 cities across the continent. More than 100 degrees are offered in health science, engineering, IT, business, law, architecture, arts and design, media, education and political science. Yesterday, Honoris United Universities was launched in London, UK, while in Durban the Management College of Southern Africa (Mancosa) and Regent Business School announced their partnership with the network, subject to regulatory approvals. Ecole Marocaine des Sciences de * ’Ingénieur, the largest private institution in Morocco and the leading private engineering school, is also on board. Professor Yusuf Karodia, the founder of Mancosa and Regent Business School, was present for the launch in London. He is also one of the founders of Honoris. Karodia said the idea of collaborating and the notion of narrative intelligence got them excited to the extent that they were not only in London for the event, but were to go immediately to Casablanca and begin to exchange ideas. “In South Africa, with our recent independence, one of the problems we suddenly focused on was academic education. “Everyone wants a degree, but nobody wants to fix air conditioners, there were no plumbers and so on and so forth. On our visit to Chile and Casablanca universities, we were so excited because this is exactly what we needed. “It was not being done at home. Immediately, the thought struck us of the ideal partnership between the north and south,” Karodia said. “We will begin to make an important contribution to the technical, educational and vocational things in our part of the world. “There is a buy-in need for this type of education. We are excited. The seminal initiative, in fact, I think, it is too small for the time being. It should be much bigger. “More people should be involved because no amount of such initiatives will meet the demands with the African context,” he said.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Karodia said on the continent, African solutions were needed where “we have to begin to believe that people in the north are as African as people in the south”. Unfortunately, he said, the mindset of that type of belief does not exist at the moment. Karodia said there were nearly half a billion people under the age of 20 in Africa. “These young students have the same aspirations as children in the other parts of the world. We need to provide access to these young individuals. This platform, although not as big as it should be, perhaps is the beginning of such an initiative,” he said. Professor Zaheer Hamid, director of Mancosa GSB, said both Mancosa and Regent Business School had been in constant engagement for the past 18 months working on a model that would be suitable for all the partners. “This model is particularly exciting because it is one of bringing together the greatness and the expertise that each partner university has, into one platform. There is constant engagement to fine-tune the model,” he said. Luis Lopez, the newly appointed chief executive of Honoris, said it was rooted in the vision of the founders of the member institutions. “We believe our key values - collaborative intelligence, mobility and agility - unite us in the purpose of securing a successful impact for our students, their families and their communities.” Daily News