“Sometimes when you exaggerate the status of a family and you make life be about the Guptas and everything else about the Guptas, you actually make them assume unearned importance. We are dealing with State capture, we are dealing with the role of the family in that State capture, (but) it’s not a subject  for every NEC­ ­(national executive committee),” Mantashe said at a meeting of the party’s top structure in Pretoria. “Processes are under way. We have taken a resolution on that issue. The fact that provinces are beginning to talk about it means that the ANC body is now alive to the problem and they are talking about it. Therefore the body of the ANC will improve its immunity, to being infected by the Guptas.” However, Mantashe said, ­enforcing the law was the responsibility of the police. He rebuffed questions on the ­perceived lack of drive to probe and prosecute members of the Gupta family. “So your suggestion is that the ANC must set up its police unit and arrest the Guptas? To round them up and arrest them - is that your suggestion? I don’t know if you want the ANC to have a police unit and a private army, that surrounds the Guptas and locks them up in a private prison. I think that will be absurd.” Mantashe said it was grossly unfair for South African media to portray the ANC as a governing party that turned a blind eye to corruption. “When you have two mayors of Buffalo City having been removed from their positions and when you have three secretaries of regions of the ANC who have been removed from their positions ... to create a picture that nothing is happening ... is misleading to society. “When an MEC in a province gets arrested, prosecuted and convicted, and we forget that as we go, because we are looking for something that we are interested in now, is a wrong approach to educating society,” said Mantashe. “I don’t want us to be casual in dealing with the issue of the e-mails of the Guptas ... it’s quite complex. It’s actually denting the ANC despite the fact that as an organisation, we are not at the heart of it. It’s individual members that are accused, but it dents the ANC.” Mantashe stressed that where there was criminal activity, “State institutions must kick in and do their work.” Senior ANC leaders, including President Jacob Zuma, Chairperson Baleka Mbete and Treasurer-General Zweli Mkhize were in attendance at the party’s one-day meeting. African News Agency