“People assume that when they call in that we are waiting for that specific call. They don’t understand that one person can answer up to 400 calls in a 12-hour shift and that’s not even month-end time,” said an operator who did not want to be named. The operator was speaking to the Daily News as employees continued on the second day of a national 10111 call centre strike. The workers, employed under the Public Service Act, are demanding, among other things, that their pay grades be moved from Level 5 to Level 7. The operator, with seven years of service, said staff not only responded to calls but also multitasked - talking to a caller, dispatching police and also sometimes providing advice. Prank calls also made their work difficult, he said. They also assisted rape victims by getting them relevant help and, in murder cases, they called out the police, photographers and mortuary vans, which he said was not in their job description. “I had a situation where a 12-year-old child called in, claiming his family had been attacked. I had to use my discretion to decide on whether this was a prank call or not.” He said he consoled the child, whose father had been stabbed and shot, and mother immobilised. He said he did not have the training for that type of counselling, but went beyond the call of duty to help the traumatised child. These types of calls affected his personal life. “My wife complains that I become paranoid about everything. I warn her about hijackings in our area and that she needs to be careful.” What angered him the most was that their complaints had been ignored. Another worker, a mother of two, said she felt neglected. She said there were no promotion opportunities and that they had to work in poor conditions. “We started off with disappointment because we expected the SAPS to respond, saying they would come forward with an offer. We didn’t expect them to ignore us totally. Basically, they are disrespecting us and they are making us feel like we are nothing. “I have missed most of my daughters’ birthdays and Christmases as I have been working. “I find it very unfair that the SAPS is treating us so unfairly.” She said they were receiving the same salaries as people who were recently employed, even though some of them have been working for more than 10 years. Oscar Skommerre, general-secretary of the South African Policing Union that represents the workers, said negotiations with the police did not bear any fruit. “We got nothing from the SAPS management and are moving forward with the strike.” He said they had requested intervention from the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration to facilitate negotiations and advise all parties. Provincial police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said workers were told before they embarked on a strike about the “no work, no pay” policy. Mbhele said not all workers were on strike and they were still able to carry out their duties. She could not comment on the progress of the negotiations. South African Federation of Trade Unions general-secretary Zwelinzima Vavi has appealed to Police Minister Fikile Mbalula to ensure the strike ended before the weekend. This comes as provincial 10111 call centres begin buckling under pressure and were not coping with calls. “Hear the cry of these workers. Respond to them. For God’s sake, they have legitimate expectations,” Vavi said on Thursday in Johannesburg. Vavi said the strike was unnecessary because the matter should have been resolved. “Our plea to the minister is that you dig deep down in your conscience and find a reason why you should call a meeting on Friday with these union leaders to make sure the strike doesn’t go any further. We know what happens in our communities on Friday. Go to any public hospital and you will see,” he said. Vuyo Mhaga, Mbalula’s spokesperson, said on Thursday that Mbalula’s understanding was that negotiations were ongoing. “Management will have to brief the minister about the situation so he can make an informed decision,” he said. He said while the Police Ministry was concerned about the strike and wanted staff to return to their posts, contingency plans had been put in place to help the public. Daily News