DURBAN - “I got shot! Please help me! Guys, they stole my gun and friend’s car...hijacked... please, please please help me, please help me!” This was the WhatsApp message that Parlock resident Shaun Harrigobind, 29, frantically got out on his phone to emergency groups in Durban moments after he was shot in both his legs by hijackers outside his home in Mypark Drive on Wednesday night. He is recovering in hospital. Harrigobind was seated in his friend’s Golf GTI when the hijacking occurred. Parlock Neighbourhood Watch spokesman Omar Khan said the hijackers had followed another resident, who was driving a Fortuner, into the area. The resident noticed he was being followed and sped off, averting a hijacking. Khan said the hijackers saw Harrigobind and his friend – identified only as Rodney – as soft targets. “We always ask residents to be vigilant. Had he parked the car in his driveway and locked the gate to continue the conversation, the crime could have been averted. “The driver off the car was in a state of shock when interviewed. Harrigobind was shot twice: once in the thigh and below the left knee. We wish him a speedy recovery,” Khan said. Harrigobind’s firearm was also taken. Police spokeswoman Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said Rodney and Harrigobind were parked on a driveway when they were approached by four men travelling in a white Ford Fiesta. “The suspects produced firearms and demanded the vehicle keys. They opened fire, wounding his friend in both legs. Charges of attempted murder and carjacking were opened at Newlands East police station,” Mbhele said. Marshall security spokesman Kyle van Reenen said Harrigobind was in a serious but stable condition when they attended the scene. Harrigobind’s WhatsApp plea for help is doing the rounds on social media. In a separate incident last night, a group of men forced their way into a house by breaking down the door while a family were seated in the lounge in McGregor Road, Sydenham. Mbhele said the men took three cellphones, laptops and a white Mercedes-Benz before fleeing. Daily News