Khoza said she had opened two cases with the police, while her 25-year-old daughter had also opened her own case with the police on Wednesday. “I think my daughter started getting involved because she was really terrified, and for the first time on Thursday she got some feedback from the Hillcrest police station when she went to open the case.” Khoza has been vocal about the no-confidence vote against President Jacob Zuma, which she said should be done through a secret ballot. “What the police are now saying is that they want to link the two cases. They think they have made some progress. That’s what my daughter told me, because she went there and demanded answers when she opened the case,” Khoza said. She said she had not yet met the detective handling the case, but the police said they wanted to meet her so they could ask the prosecutor to follow up on the callers stalking Khoza and her daughter. “Apparently they need to get a court order for them to check where these calls are coming from,” Khoza said. She said the calls reflected a No-caller ID. “They (the police) say there is some progress, and I think my daughter’s involvement has helped a great deal because I opened cases and nobody was taking them seriously, but my daughter went there on Wednesday and there seems to be some movement,” Khoza said. She said the police were going to visit her to get her phone and get her to sign a statement to authorise them to go to court to be granted the right to follow up on the No caller ID numbers, as the police could not trace the numbers without a court order. Untrue However on Thursday, when the Daily News enquired with the KwaZulu-Natal police’s media centre about the case, the police said: “We have checked with Hillcrest police from July 10 to date; there are no records of related incidents reported.” Khoza said it was untrue that she was “extremely ill-disciplined” in terms of not following the party position, as the ANC’s Jackson Mthembu had said. “For seven votes of no-confidence that were passed on the president, I was following the party position, even though deep down I disagreed with it.  I was voting in favour of the president to stay,” Khoza said. She said the anti-Zuma marches in April were the “game-changer” for her, because it was no longer just opposition party politics in the 400-member National Assembly. “It was more than that, because even if it was them (the opposition) who were feeling that way, the truth of the matter is that they took whatever views they had about the president to the public, and the public responded the way they did on a normal working day,” she said. “People took to the streets. We are a leader of society; as the ANC, can I continue to vote and say I’m voting along party lines when there is now evidence that this thing is not just a narrow political party interest issue, but it’s a societal issue,” Khoza said. Daily News