It outlined licensing the sale of rhino horn and the gift of hundreds of thousands of wild animals for community farming. The department’s position follows a month-long Rhino Laboratory held last year, and was presented by a high-level panel consisting of Environment Minister Edna Molewa as well as ministers of State Security David Mahlobo and Defence Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula. Following a Constitutional Court ruling that overturned restrictions on domestic trade of rhino horn, Environmental Affairs prepared and would soon roll out licensing to purchase horns “for personal use”. Given that rhino horn within the country has little value other than the possibility of massive profits from its (presently illegal) marketing to Asia, Molewa was asked how the government planned to halt “leakage” from domestic trade into criminal transnational syndicates. She said all state-owned (45 tons) and private horn would be listed and micro-chipped. There are sophisticated poaching networks in the country killing more than 1 000 rhinos a year, but it was not made clear what would stop game farmers non-listing horns and selling them to syndicates. Molewa emphasised that commercial international trade in rhino horn was prohibited in terms of CITES (the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora) - an international agreement between governments. Its aim is to ensure that international trade in specimens of wild animals and plants did not threaten their survival. Molewa also pointed out that export for personal use would require permits from both exporting and importing countries. She did not indicate how the “non-commercial use” would be policed within main-use countries like Vietnam and China. One rhino farmer is apparently already broadcasting an online horn auction with 
websites in English, Chinese and Vietnamese, although Molewa said she had not heard of this. In order to disincentivise local rural communities near national parks from becoming involved in transnational criminal syndicates, the minister said 625 wild animals had been donated to emerging farmers, with a goal of 300 000 by 2030. She did not elaborate on how these farmers would contain such game, or prevent it from being poached. Wildlife protection in Kruger Park costs millions of rand and requires sophisticated equipment and highly trained, military-type personnel. Molewa reported that there had been success in the arrest of alleged poachers, with 359 arrested between January and June this year. There were 90 arrests within Kruger Park and 112 in adjacent areas. Conservation Action Trust.