She also squashed the testimony on Monday of Vanessa Burger, an independent human rights activist. Burger had testified at the Moerane Commission of Inquiry into the political murders in the province. Burger told the commission the widow’s 15-year-old son was suicidal after his father Themba Pina’s death. However, the widow, who did not want to be named, told the Daily News her son tried to attack the alleged killers and did not try to kill himself. “That was a difficult and challenging time for my children and I. What I remember is that we were trying to prevent him (my son) from going to Block R after the news (of his father’s murder). “He was crying hysterically, grabbing anything he could get, saying he was going to avenge his father’s death,” she said. “While we were shocked by my husband’s death,  people  celebrated his death on the other side of the hostel,” said the widow from Lusikisiki, in the Eastern Cape. The unemployed mother of three with three grandchildren said she had not heard from the police about the progress of the investigation “if there is any”. “It’s painful. My children are still hurting because they were close to their father and what’s worse is that, after my husband’s murder, the killers went to my older son’s room to kill him, too. By God’s grace he was in the Eastern Cape when this happened,” she said. Burger said Pina’s case was one of many which were yet to be prosecuted. “Nineteen of the 25 people I have interviewed reported suffering from depression, while one attempted suicide. Glebelands had become a reservoir for hit men hired to commit murders around the province,” Burger testified. Burger also told the commission, set up by Premier Willies Mchunu, that a police officer supplied guns to the hostel to terrorise those who were against the selling of  accommodation there, which is said to be sold for R1 000. She said the money went towards buying guns, ammunition and paying “rogue police officers” to turn a blind eye to anyone involved in terrorising hostel dwellers. Former public protector Thuli Madonsela had published a report on Glebelands that found the Metro Police and the SAPS had failed to protect the hostel residents. Evidence leader Advocate Bheki Manyathi, referring to this report, asked Burger what she thought was the reason for law enforcement agencies not intervening. Burger replied that the police were not politically independent. “This is about politics and money. Good policemen who were trying to do their work were interfered with. Tampering with evidence became rampant. The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) is dysfunctional. “A police officer who is supplying guns at the hostel has been reported to the police, but nothing has happened. In KZN, there’s political interference in every government department,” Burger testified. She alleged there were recent “collections” at the hostel for hit men to terrorise the uMzimkhulu area. There were numerous shootings of municipal officials, most recently of former ANC Youth League secretary-general Sindiso Magaqa. Burger alleged the hit men were sourced from Glebelands. Her solution was for all police implicated in the Glebelands issue to be investigated. She said all local police officers should be replaced by those from outside the province and felt that all Glebelands cases should be withdrawn from the uMlazi Magistrate’s Court and sent to the Durban Magistrate’s Court. “Class action against the state to compensate those who suffered as a result of Glebelands violence should also be considered,” she said. Another witness, who cannot be named as per the commission’s instruction, corroborated most of Burger’s testimony. The witness is under police protection after an attempt was made on his life. Daily News