DURBAN - Former city manager Sibusiso Sithole said he approved the eThekwini Municipality s decision to procure four Casspirs for nearly R20million through arms manufacturer Denel, while opposition parties are outraged. The decision to equip Metro Police was not taken lightly. It was informed by a risk assessment that determined that municipal assets including buildings, electricity substations, trucks for solid waste and water infrastructure would experience attacks in the period leading to local government elections and it s aftermath, Sithole told the Daily News yesterday.He said universities and private business also faced these constraints as experienced at Isithebe in Mandeni.Sithole decided to respond on this issue to give the public an understanding on why such a unique decision was taken and its context . But it is not my wish to comment on municipal matters because I m no longer there, said Sithole.The key challenge was that the SAPS was ill-equipped to respond to emergencies that Metro faced and, by the time they responded, serious damage would have been incurred. In the wake of Marikana police are reluctant to respond to situations that require public order policing. At the same time, Metro had trained over 100 officers in public order policing, but we re not properly equipped to protect assets, he said.It was also evident that public protests had become increasingly violent - including invasions of land and buildings - and municipal staff came under serious attack as the vehicles they were using were not suitable to cope with the new operational environment.Sithole said, based on these factors, which are supported by statistics on violent incidents where property was destroyed and insurance claims escalated, it was decided that it would make sense to equip Metro police in this way. However, these vehicles are not meant for police to go overboard and violate human rights, nor shoot at protesters in the same way they were used during the apartheid regime. The good thing is that these vehicles are bought directly from another organ of state so there are no unnecessary mark-ups in terms of costs, he said.Sithole felt it could also add to the city s capacity to deal with violence in hostels such as Glebelands and in KwaMashu.However, the DA s Heinz de Boer said the purchase comes amid a deepening crisis in the Metro police, including staff shortages, a lack of patrol vehicles and serious political divisions. The unprecedented purchase also comes in the wake of scandals involving the lack of firearms, decent uniforms and bungling in the procurement of horse and dog food and bulletproof vests, he said.The IFP s Mduduzi Nkosi accused the city of trying to start its own army: This municipality is adopting a military-style approach to a civilian issue by purchasing Casspirs instead of using that money to provide basic services to our people. Those who protest do so out of frustration because of the failed promises of the municipality. If the municipality addressed the needs of the people by providing decent housing, sanitation, electricity and created sustainable jobs, citizens would have no reason to protest or riot, said Nkosi.Krish Kumar, the city s finance head, said the decision to procure the Casspirs was based on safety and route access. First and foremost, we need to protect the safety of our personnel who are required to go out and attend to these volatile situations. Another issue is the access routes to these areas of unrest. These vehicles do have a negative connotation due to apartheid, but they are for the safety and protection of our officers. (On Thursday) we had two trucks that were set alight during protests. Our officers need to be protected, said Kumar.Daily News