PRETORIA - Members of the Black Lawyers Association (BLA) embarked on a protest march to the Union Buildings in Pretoria on Friday, accusing government of selecting mostly white counsel and law firms for its numerous court matters. BLA president Lutendo Sigogo told reporters that his association was now demanding that President Jacob Zuma intervene and "use his powers" to influence government departments and municipalities to brief black attorneys as well when it came to matters before the courts. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. "We want to be exposed in all levels of legal work so that we are equipped and ready to lead this country in terms of the judiciary and everywhere we can be requested to lead." He said there were statistics which proved that "white legal professionals" continued to get the lion's share of legal briefs from the South African government. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The Black Lawyers Association (BLA) embarked on a protest march to the Union Buildings in Pretoria on Friday, accusing government of preferring the services of white attorneys and law firms. VIDEO: Jonisayi Maromo/ANA "Even if you are briefed with them, they still receive more money than black lawyers and women lawyers. We need that to be done away with," said Sigogo. Police escorted the small crowd of protesters as they made their way onto the lawn area of the Union Buildings. Wearing their black court robes and waving placards, the lawyers sang and danced, chanting slogans as they waited for an official from the Presidency to receive their memorandum. A statement from the BLA said the protest was directed at Zuma as the head of State because the State was the biggest consumer of legal services in the country. African News Agency (ANA)