The recommendation is one of the solutions suggested by the commission in the report it tabled to Parliament on its investigation into the commercialisation of religion. The onus is now on Parliament to pass the commission’s recommendations for the regulation process to begin. However, while some religious organisations welcomed these recommendations, others have vowed to oppose the report. Some argued that there were laws in place that pastors, like any other people, should adhere to. One thing they all agreed on was that religion was an independent sector that no one had a right to interfere with. The commission recommended that no religious leader would be allowed to operate without registration and that of their places of worship. This would affect all church structures wherever people gathered to express their religion, whether they operated from a church building, open field, classroom, garage, mosque, temple or synagogue. The umbrella organisations would have to submit their governance framework of the church’s code of conduct and disciplinary procedures in order to be accredited. Thereafter, the religious practitioners affiliated to them and their places of worship would be registered. Once completed, this list would have to be submitted to the CRL Rights Commission. The umbrella body would have to reach a stipulated number of affiliates for it to be accredited and ultimately, after a vetting process, issued with an operating licence. Bishop Samuel Ndlovu, chairperson of the Alliance of Pentecostal and Charismatic Churches of South Africa, said traditionally religion was independent from government and politics and should not be interfered with. He said although they were against the exploitation of religion by bogus religious leaders misleading people in the name of religion, he  encouraged pastors to register with the Department of Social Development as per the law. He said if the commission wanted to regulate foreign pastors operating illegally, it should tackle the matter with the Departments of Social Development and Home Affairs. “Church is God and religion is a calling and no one but God himself has the mandate. How do you regulate a calling and how do you measure it to arrive at a decision of whether to award a licence or not? No matter how foolish my religion sounds to you, but if God gave me the mandate, who has a right to dispute it?” Ndlovu questioned. Spirituality He said there was no mechanism to measure spirituality and therefore the commission did not have a right to regulate something it knew nothing about. “We are shaken by the commission’s recommendation. It  is making a mistake. If we allow the government to regulate us, then the next thing the state is going to dictate to us what to preach,” he said. The licence requirement of submitting the church’s code of conduct, Ndlovu said, would bring about a “one-state religion system”. “We are not going to be silenced. We are going to oppose the report and we will make sure that parliament listens to our submissions,” said Ndlovu. Reverand Ian Booth, Diakonia Council of Churches chairperson, said they fully supported the recommendations. “All of our member churches have such measures in place for those who serve in the ministry, which is regarded as a sacred calling. We expect nothing less of any who wish to occupy that space.” Paseka Motsoeneng, popularly known as Pastor Mboro, yesterday threatened to take legal action against the commission. Daily News