While most people commented on her cellulite and criticised it as “something that should not be paraded in public”, Wabantu said such a dress kept her events calendar fully booked. “I chose the dress because it represents who I am. I wanted something that would be comfortable, but as usual I wanted something that would make people talk,” she said. Wabantu said the dress drew attention and definitely brought business. “This body is what brings bread and butter to my table. My job is to entertain people and this dress is part of the package.” She said while most women would criticise her, she enjoyed the attention from men. “If men appreciate what they see, women should learn to appreciate that,” she quipped. Known for not wearing underwear, her dance moves and skimpy clothes, the 32-year-old mother of one became popular for her dance moves at Durban’s Eyadini Lounge and has since climbed the entertainment ladder. “As women we should not hide behind clothes. We are beautiful. Cellulite and stretch marks are part of us.” Others envied her for her boldness and confidence in showing off her body. “God gave me this beautiful body that I am proud of. I dance and make people happy for a living, I make a lot of money and am able to give my 11-year-old son a good life,” Wabantu said. She said she made between R15000 and R20000 per booking, where she is invited to mingle with guests and show off her dance moves. “I am doing what I love. I go out to party, have fun and get paid for it. At the end of the day, I am a mother and I do what other mothers do when I am at home. I cook and spend time with my son. He understands my job and is happy that I do what I enjoy,” she said. Born and raised in Rockville, Soweto, Wabantu was orphaned at the age of 13. She and her friends frequently visited the Rock Club in Soweto and that is when she became popular for her dance moves. Soon she found herself appearing in the Sunday newspapers’ entertainment pages. Four years ago, she came to Durban and worked for a debt collection company. “But the entertainment industry kept calling. I have since resigned from work and am doing very well,” Wabantu said. Daily News