“The Speaker is considering a wide range of issues pertaining to the report. It is not gathering dust. She is processing it,” spokesperson Moloto Mothapo said. “Ultimately, at the appropriate time, it will be referred to the portfolio committee to be handled in line with the rules of Parliament,” Mothapo added. He made the comments after opposition parties demanded that Speaker Baleka Mbete table the report. This has prompted the official opposition to accuse Mbete of refusing to table the report because, according to them,”its contents no doubt implicate a number of her ANC comrades”. The DA has not only demanded the tabling of the report, but has even filed a Promotion of Access to Information Act bid for it. “It is shocking that MPs have to go to such lengths to gain access to reports emanating from their committee work,” DA spokesperson Phumzile van Damme said. It was previously reported that Mbete had sought legal advice and that she would first engage with the implicated parties. Van Damme said Mbete’s duty to Parliament was above her role as ANC chairperson. “Mbete doesn’t have any legal basis for withholding the report, and her explanation, offered in the National Assembly programme committee, that the implicated persons were being consulted doesn’t hold water. “Parliament doesn’t have an obligation to consult with those who lied to it,” Van Damme added. She also said Mbete was obliged to table this report to ensure Parliament performed its oversight role and that those who lied faced the full consequences of their actions. During the inquiry, former SABC journalist Vuyo Mvoko gave evidence that the SABC’s resources were diverted to fund the controversial business breakfasts of the Gupta-owned company and competitor, The New Age, and that the public broadcaster did not generate any revenue from the briefings. These claims were disputed by former board chairperson Ben Ngubane, who said the breakfasts made good business sense and were at no cost to the SABC. But the interim board recently told Parliament that the SABC had incurred costs totalling R20 million on these breakfasts. Daily News