Some even take second bonds on their homes in order to finance them. A woman whose son left to study in China in 2009 said parents had to pay up to R20000 just for application forms. “This is just a fee to someone to get the forms that you sign and they send it to a university. The parents have to pay up to R100 000 for university fees. This includes flights and accommodation. Fortunately the food is cheap,” she said. The Kloof-based mother said her son was not accepted to study medicine at the University of KwaZulu-Natal, despite him being in the top 5 at his high school. “He was advised to study a Bachelor of Science degree and then study medicine. He completed his first year, but was very unhappy. At school, he was given a bursary to study at Wits, but was not accepted for their medicine programme. We had heard about students studying abroad and we opted to send him there. “After five years, he returned and applied through the Health Professions Council (of SA) to do his board exam. This was in 2014 and out of about 12 to 15 students who wrote the exam, only one student passed. My son failed and no one even told him why. He paid about R4000 for the exam and he had to do it again in 2015. “Out of roughly 15 to 20 people, he was one of six who passed. There were also those who pay for crash courses before the exam,” she said. She said when her son was due to leave for China, her husband suggested the family go with him to help him settle in. She said there were often cases where parents paid money to people to travel to China with their sons or daughters and ended up getting scammed out of their cash. It cost the family at least R45 000 for their flights to China to ensure their son got to university and found accommodation. The woman said the moratorium issued was a blow to those students who desperately wanted to study medicine but couldn’t get into medical schools in South Africa. She said some students were offered places at hospitals closer to their homes, while others were offered places at hospitals in outer-lying areas around the province. “There is just so much bribery and corruption. “But I am glad my son is where he is. He is very passionate about his job and when he comes home every second week, you can hear his excitement at being able to help others,” she said. Daily News