This is according to Thembalethu Vico, the acting chief director for monitoring, control and surveillance at the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (Daff). Arnold Bengis was convicted for large-scale lobster poaching along South Africa’s West Coast between 1987 and 2000. He was recently sentenced by the Court for the Southern District of New York to more than four years in prison by Manhattan District Court Judge Lewis Kaplan. Bengis, 81, lives in Israel and faces extradition. Vico said before the money even reached government’s coffers, the US government still had to get it from Bengis who could still challenge the fine and sentence. He said the process would take no more than three months. Bengis’ conviction has been uncharted territory for the department. “There is no case globally similar to Bengis’ case. It is also a huge learning curve for the department as there was no previous point of reference,” he said. What helped Daff was that the US had the Lacey Act, a conservation law that deals with the illegal theft, transportation or selling of wildlife, plants and fish. Vico said such a law should be adopted  globally because “it assists to deal with anyone who deals with stolen wildlife”. He said not many countries had such laws, which made it difficult to prosecute such cases. Troubles Vico said  Bengis’ transgressions went back more than 29 years where he had taken rock lobsters and exported them to the US for sale. Bengis’ legal troubles began in 2001 after the then Scorpions received a tip-off there was a container at the Cape Town harbour destined for New York that contained illegally-caught lobsters. This spawned a massive national and international investigation which unearthed corruption in the fishing industry. In 2002, he pleaded guilty to 28charges in terms of the Marine Living Resources Act. The ruling was also welcomed by the IFP. Russel Cebekhulu, the party’s spokesperson on Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries said: “This is a great victory for global anti-poaching efforts. We trust that the department will use the funds to bolster its marine anti-poaching efforts in South Africa. Anti-poaching efforts in this country in terms of capacity, resources and the toughest of criminal sanction must be prioritised by this government.” Cebekhulu said he hoped the ruling would be a wake-up call 
to the South African government to step up its anti-poaching 
efforts. Daily News