Durban - Within a month of release after 19 days in prison, convicted fraudster Teresa Fernandez went to church to be baptised ahead of a new life. “I have felt revolting,” she told Independent Media after being sentenced this week to a five-year suspended sentence for stealing R300 000 she had raised for suffering animals for the Umgeni SPCA in Howick. She was also sentenced to three years’ house arrest and is waiting to hear where she will have to do community service. “What I did was despicable. I am deeply remorseful of  my actions because I took advantage of people’s kindness,” she said. Fernandez now plans to live a quiet life in Durban, supporting her local SPCA with donations in her personal capacity and with little care for materialism. “I was materialistic. I did like nice things, but I couldn’t be less interested in them now. I loathe going to the shops,” she said. The Howick Magistrate’s court heard that she had committed the crime to give her unemployed partner, Lee Bromley, and his daughter, a comfortable lifestyle. The couple went to Italy but she returned in December on borrowed money to “sort out the mess” that flared up in her wake, she said. Although he knew what had been going on, she did not wish to speak about him and insisted that she should shoulder full responsibility. 
They are no longer an item. Westville Prison was “the most horrific experience of my life”, but Fernandez has being going back there to visit a sentenced inmate serving time for white-collar crime, who she met in the hospital section. “In four years no one had been to visit her.” She said people were mostly kind and protective in an environment rife with racism and cruelty. “A senior warder hit me,” Fernandez, 47, recalled. “They would throw our tablets at us and say if we wanted to commit suicide, we should  go ahead. "They also threatened us with food poisoning.” Another inmate she befriended was a pregnant woman who had been a drug dealer to support her children. “I realised you cannot judge anyone unless you’ve walked in their shoes. These are human beings and all of us make mistakes.” Fernandez’s yellow uniform was decorated with the lettering “detained”, prompting her to think about how whether one is inside or outside prison one can be metaphorically detained. “You’re also detained in life. We’ve all got things and issues and complicated lives we’re stuck in and can’t get out of, such as abuse and bullying.” Fernandez said through her frequent tears that deep down she always had an innate fear of being rejected, which she countered by helping others. “I always thought that I did things for a reason and then I did this and I became a criminal.” She went on to say of such behaviour: “Really, who are you kidding? If you do things just to please others, you are not being true to yourself.” Fernandez said one of the conditions the court imposed on her was that she undergo counselling. “I need to look within myself and see why I did it. I don’t want to blame Lee. I did it. I need to look within myself." Fernandez said a huge stress during her trial was that the money could not be paid back – by a family trust – until the proceedings were over. There were constant delays but her lawyer, Jacques Botha, was proactive in getting it on track,  knocking on the doors of the SPCA and the public prosecutor to get around obstacles such as missing dockets and missing documents. She was unable to say sorry to the Howick SPCA and Karin Vickers, the donor whose money she took, until the conclusion of her trial because her bail conditions prevented her from contacting potential witnesses. Now, she plans to do that. Neither Vickers nor Dave Taylor, the chairperson of Umgeni SPCA, could be reached for comment. However, The Witness newspaper reported that the SPCA was especially grateful that Vickers had pledged that funds returned to her would be given to the SPCA. THE INDEPENDENT ON SATURDAY