This is just one of the questions emerging after a new “temporary” board was set up to oversee the troubled nature conservation agency, amid a reluctance to publish the CVs of the new appointees. After a series of controversies in recent years, several senior staff fear that Ezemvelo is sliding into further decline because of major funding cutbacks and leadership instability, while simultaneously battling a rhino poaching onslaught in the flagship 
Hluhluwe-Imfolozi Park. Ezemvelo has been plagued by leadership problems, mounting salary costs, labour unrest and a government task team report in 2014 that led to the suspension of former chief executive Bandile Mkhize. The report brought to light massive pay hikes for several senior executives at a time when Ezemvelo barely had enough money to pay two-thirds of the staff, as well as claims that Mkhize rewarded his “friends” in Ezemvelo with salary grade hikes. Calling for disciplinary action against Mkhize, the task team also questioned whether certain board members “had the necessary qualities to act in the best interest of the organisation”. Criminal charges are also still pending against Ezemvelo for the conservation agency’s role in ripping up and draining a protected wetland in northern KZN in 2014 under the guise of an “alien plant eradication project”. It is understood that provincial Treasury auditors raised concerns that at least two new board members might not be suitably experienced to direct the affairs of a state-owned entity - although this has been denied by the new Ezemvelo board chairperson, Zwile Zulu. Thulisa Ndlela and Sipho Maxwell Mtolo were appointed to the board earlier this year by Environmental Affairs MEC, Sihle Zikalala, who also chairs the ANC in KZN. Mtolo began his military career in uMkhonto weSizwe in the early 1990s, before becoming an infantryman, PT instructor and sports officer in the SANDF. Now he runs a construction company that recently won a joint tender to repair the roof of King Goodwill Zwelithini’s  palaces. Ndlela is the ANC Youth League eThekwini spokesperson . While he studied international relations at the University of KwaZulu-Natal, his work experience appears limited to brief stints as a library assistant and programme officer for a civil society group. Nominations In a newspaper advert late last year, Zikalala invited nominations for new board members to be submitted to his departmental ministry head, Kwazi Mshengu, who is also the ANC Youth League provincial chairperson. KZN Treasury auditors drafted a report voicing concern over the appointment of Mtolo and Ndlela during an internal audit into Ezemvelo and its parent body, the Department of Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs. The draft report states: “During the audit it was noted that the following members (Ndlela and Mtolo) did not have the necessary experience that is required and expected of a member.” In response to initial queries, Musa Cebisa, KZN Treasury spokesperson, said: “There is absolutely no truth to the fact (sic) that KZN Treasury had dissatisfaction about the qualifications of some members of the Ezemvelo Board. It is also not true that there is something to this effect that we communicated. We had no opinion on this matter at all.” Later, when challenged with more specific details about the draft report, Cebisa back-tracked, stating: “It appears that this allegation came to the attention of the service providers that were appointed to conduct an audit Since the issue around the board was not part of their mandate and scope, the allegation was referred to Ezemvelo for verification.” When asked to clarify if this was an admission that Treasury service providers did indeed question the qualifications of the two board members, Cebisa responded: “We are saying they might have raised the matter, but we felt that we needed to focus on the mandate at hand and leave other matters to Ezemvelo to deal with.” But Zulu responded: “Sorry, I don’t know what you are talking about. Provincial Treasury has not raised the issue with me and I don’t expect them to do so.” Mtolo said he was not at liberty to discuss board matters, and Ndlela has not responded to phone and e-mail requests for comment. The latest controversy comes at a time when 84% of Ezemvelo’s conservation budget goes on salaries and the operational budget has been slashed by at least 30%. Ezemvelo chief executive David Mabunda is also believed to have come under pressure to resign. He was brought in just more than two years ago to restore stability to Ezemvelo after his predecessor, Mkhize, bailed out with a golden handshake, despite a damning report about grossly-inflated salary hikes for top executives. Mabunda has declined to comment on reports that he was set to resign at the end of last month. He left SANParks in 2014 after media reports that he stood to gain nearly R81million as a BEE shareholder after a land claim on the Mala Mala private game reserve. Defended Mabunda defended himself, stating he had never concealed his involvement with Mala Mala and that his share option transaction was above board and “disclosed to the authorities”. Back at Ezemvelo, questions have also been raised about the nomination and selection procedures for the latest board appointments, and the fact that the new board has a tenure of just one year (instead of the normal three years). Ezemvelo, Zikalala’s office and the board chairperson have all rebuffed requests to release the CVs of new board members. Unlike Mtolo and Ndlela, other board members appear to have more extensive and appropriate work experience in legal affairs, academia and administration. Ann McDonnell, the DA provincial spokesperson on Environmental Affairs, has asked Zikalala’s department for details on their interests and qualifications in the field of nature conservation because the act regulating Ezemvelo requires that: “The members of the board must have an interest in nature conservation” and also be drawn from a defined category of interest groups “to achieve, as far as practical, a balance of interests and expertise within the board”. A senior staffer said: “We just don’t have the calibre of leadership to turn things around. Mabunda has been on extended stress leave and no longer engages staff as he used to. He appears to have been isolated by political infighting.” Durban environmental law expert Jeremy Ridl - who has successfully challenged the legality of previous Ezemvelo board appointments - said: “It is a pity that the appointment process is conducted so clandestinely, and that the public has no opportunity to test the suitability of candidates.” Daily News