DURBAN - A municipal bus was petrol-bombed during a violent service delivery protest in Cato Manor on Friday. It came as police had their hands full dealing with at least four service delivery-related protests across the city on Friday morning. Protests and the burning of tyres flared up briefly on the M19 near Reservoir Hills, on the N2 Southern Freeway near Chesterville, and on the Mangosuthu Highway in Umlazi. They were all contained quickly before they could escalate, said metro police attending to the worst of the protests in Cato Manor. Police were concerned about the criminal element involved in the protest along Vusi Mzimela (Bellair) Road, King Cetshwayo (Jan Smuts) Highway and Wiggins Road in Cato Manor.  Police reports from the scene alleged that a group of protesters had blockaded the road with rocks and water pipes taken from a construction under way on the pavement. The protesters littered the roads with trees and burning tyres. During the protests vehicles were stoned and motorists were forced to make U-turns at the intersection. A municipal bus bus en route to Chesterville was stopped near Buro Crescent by the protesters, who ordered the driver to get off. The bus did not have passengers. It is alleged a petrol bomb was thrown into the stationary bus just after 6am, destroying it completely. The protest is a recurrence of last month's land invasion protests. A group of people are attempting to illegally occupy a green belt of land on Wiggins and Blinkbonnie roads. Metro police and the Durban Fire Department clear and clean up the debris that was strewn across the road by protestors in Cato Manor this on Friday. Picture Sibusiso Ndlovu There they set alight a municipal electricity transformer box for the fourth time in three months. Some of the newly installed traffic signals at the King Cetshwayo intersection were also destroyed.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Durban Fire Department Divisional Commander Owen Singh said the bus was well alight when they arrived at the scene. Other fires on the road were also extinguished. Metro police officers and the Durban Fire department cleared the debris off the roads before re-opening them. Daily News