The party said it believed that Dhlomo was hiding “something” by refusing them access to Addington and Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospitals on Monday. Tensions were high at Addington when Dhlomo had a heated telephonic discussion with DA MP Patricia Kopane and DA provincial health spokesperson Dr Imran Keeka. There were no immediate details on the party’s next plan. “We now question whether the oncology services at the hospital have been improved at all following the findings of the SA Human Rights Commission (SAHRC). The arrogance with which MEC Dhlomo handled this visit is completely unacceptable as it is because of his seeming mismanagement that hundreds of cancer patients lost their lives,” Kopane said. The SAHRC found that both the provincial and the national health departments were complicit in the violation of “the rights to human dignity and life of the affected patients” when they “failed to take reasonable measures to progressively realise the right to have access to health care services in the KZN province”. “The SAHRC report has been tabled in Parliament. As soon as Parliament resumes its business, the committee (health portfolio) must summon the MEC and his department to explain what has been done since the uncovering of this complete disregard for the lives of people,” she said. The permission for yesterday’s visit was approved in a letter dated July 7, signed by department head Dr Sifiso Mtshali and Dhlomo was copied. Permission On Sunday, the permission was revoked via an e-mail by Sam Cheatle, administrative director in Mtshali’s office. Having been told by Addington hospital chief executive Dr Mthetheleli Ndlangisa that they were not welcome at the facility, Kopane yesterday called Dhlomo and put the conversation on speaker phone. The following was his response when asked about the legality of his action: “You probably got it very wrong because the matter was sent to the head of department’s administration and Samantha replied to you and said yes, and the HOD was not there yet. Not that if he was there things would have been different  protocols of the national assembly would apply to you too. We have multi-party visits to institutions, not one individual waking up and do that. I’ve discussed this thoroughly with the minister (Aaron Motsoaledi) and I’m satisfied that we are doing the right thing”. Kopane said there were no rules in the national assembly prohibiting oversight visits. “Let’s go back to the legal prescripts in terms of what we are discussing. Which piece of legislation are you referring to? In all spheres of government we are all directed by the legal prescripts, the Acts that are there. May you kindly refer me to any pieces of legislation that say that I’m not allowed to come here. If maybe you can do that then I’ll be happy to drop the phone. Which legal footing are you standing on?” she asked. Dhlomo remained adamant that the team would not be allowed access to the hospital. When asked about the sudden change of heart, Desmond Motha, Dhlomo’s spokesperson, said visits to health care facilities by politicians were conducted through the office of the political head (MEC). “No discussion was made through the portfolio committee, and no request was made to the MEC. “Keeka knows the procedure because he also sits in the health portfolio committee,” Motha said. He would not comment on the letter granting permission for the visits. Daily News