DURBAN - The Premier of KwaZulu-Natal, Willies Mchunu, the MEC for Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs, Nomusa Dube-Ncube and members of the executive council will visit Umlazi Township on Wednesday as part of the Cabinet Day’s Operation Sukuma Sakhe. Sukuma Sakhe is a call to the people of KwaZulu-Natal to overcome issues that destroy communities. “When we started this term of office, we undertook to ensure regular interaction with ordinary members of communities as part of strengthening service delivery. All MECs including myself as the Premier, have been deployed as champions of Sukuma Sakhe in various district municipalities. MEC Dube-Ncube is the champion of Sukuma Sakhe in eThekwini,” said Mchunu. Councilors from the eThekwini Municipality will also attend and will be led by Mayor Zandile Gumede. Members of the executive council will monitor service delivery and focus on matters relating to the quality of healthcare. Mchunu spoke extensively on the state of healthcare in the township and the aim of creating healthy communities. He said they will monitor the quality of patient care. What will be part of ensuring quality healthcare, they have set targets in terms of ensuring the availability of medication where patients live. “In this regard, we will be monitoring the implementation of a Centralized Chronic Medication Dispensing and Distribution Programme which has already yielded positive results.  Currently we have more than 1081 pickup points for chronic medication collection across the province. About 293 546 patients already registered and we have committed ourselves to increase this number as part of reducing patient waiting times,” Mchunu said. He also spoke about social ills such as domestic abuse as well as the abuse of women and children. “We invite the people of this province to be part of the Provincial March Against Women and Children Abuse scheduled to take place this Friday 14 February in Durban. Our message is that neighbours and relatives must not collude with perpetrators of domestic violence, child abuse, sexual abuse and other crimes committed indoors for fear of disgracing families.” This is where various members of the KZN Cabinet will be: WARD MEC DEPLOYED COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT VENUE 89  Umlazi- T; Malukazi; Spingo  PREMIER : Mr TW Mchunu and Mayor Cllr Zandile Gumede  Umlazi-T Community Hall  76 Umlazi- V MEC:  Mr TM Kaunda  Glebelands Community Hall  78 Umlazi- K, J & KwaMgaga  SPEAKER- Cllr. L Mapena  Umlazi-K Hall  79 Umlazi- H, F, G & K MEC: Ms BN Sithole-Moloi  Umlazi-F Section Sports Field (Marquee Package)  80 Umlazi- A, B , E & V MEC: Dr SM  Dlomo  Umlazi-V Community Hall  81 Umlazi- B,C, F  MEC:  Ms WG Thusi  Isikhumbuzo Senior Primary School Open Space  82 Umlazi- H,G,N,R, W MEC RR Pillay  Menzi Sports Field- Marquee  83 Umlazi- J,H,L,M MEC: Mr EM  Dlungwane  Umlazi-M Community Hall  84 Umlazi- AA, BB,CC,K, Lusaka MEC:  Mr RT Mthembu  Umlazi-AA Community Hall  85 Umlazi- AA,N,Z MEC: Mr S  Zikalala  (Marque Package)/ Sishosonke High School  86 Umlazi- V,Y,Malukazi SP MEC:  Ms N Dube-Ncube  Umlazi-U Community Hall  87 Umlazi- D,P,Q DEPUTY MAYOR Cllr Fawzia Peer  Umlazi-Q Community Hall 88 Umlazi- A,B,D,V,S MEC : Ms B Scott  (Marquee Package) Ezimbomvini Sports Grounds  Daily News