At least once a week there is an arts programme and on weekends there are programmes about what is trending on social media, company branding, motoring and lifestyle.There is, as best I can tell, not a single regular insert about science. The same is true of other news media. When science gets coverage in the newspapers, it is invariably along the lines of “Scientists said that ...” or “scientists have discovered ...” followed by a short, over-simplified and often inaccurate account of what was really said. There is nothing about science as a subject. Anyone reading these articles might reasonably think that the function of science was to deliver predictions of imminent catastrop he, mixed in with occasional messages of hope (“coffee is good for you”, “new species found”). Why does science get such bad coverage? Maybe there’s a feeling that economics, advertising and the arts are more part of our daily lives. But science and scientific discoveries benefit all of us - from the technology in our cellphones, to the medicines we take, to the cars we drive. Science tells us how strong the structure of a bridge, or the foundations of a building must be to bear the weight it is expected to carry. Science informs us about how many fish we can catch, new techniques for agriculture, the possible dangers of pollution and healthy lifestyle choices. The conservation of our wildlife and environment is driven by scientific knowledge. Science also helps us to answer the great philosophical questions - where do we come from, what is our place in the universe, are we alone, what are the chances of life on other planets. Science has never been more important. In a time of climate change, antibiotic resistance, species going extinct, new diseases and growing demands for food, water and energy, accessing the benefits of scientific research and understanding how they are achieved is more urgent than ever before. Difficult Maybe science gets so little coverage because it is considered to be difficult, or because most people encounter it as a series of facts, rather than as a creative and dynamic process. Looking on the internet (a remarkable achievement of science!), you can find that science is a body of knowledge, or a body of knowledge organised in a systematic manner. Tim Minchen, the comedian, describes science as “humankind’s incremental acquisition of knowledge through observation”. Science is all of these. But most of all, it is a method - a means of discovering new knowledge in a way that allows us to test the accuracy of our discoveries and validate our information and conclusions. Seen in this way, science allows us to arrive at an evidence-based, rational world view. The one thing science is not is a belief system. I don’t “believe in” climate change or evolution. But since the weight of evidence suggests that they are true, I accept them as facts. This is an important difference because many people whose beliefs or products are not supported by evidence try to portray science as simply another, equivalent set of beliefs. Examples are many so-called “alternative remedies” or touted health benefits of fad foods. Tobacco companies tried for years to deny the science that said smoking was harmful and politicians in some countries still try to claim that the science showing that we are changing our climate is uncertain. Science works by a system of hypotheses - a fancy word for testable ideas. Once a hypothesis is proposed, it is tested by observations or experiments. The results of these observations and experiments are assessed using statistics, which tell us how likely it is that the hypothesis is correct. There are pretty set rules about how to do these experiments and how to analyse them, so that we can’t use them to tell us what we want to hear. And once we have results, we send them off, usually via journal editors to other scientists for criticism. If they think we’re wrong - back to the drawing board. Now, that is formal science. But it is not to say that we can always accurately tell what is true and what is not. Often we don’t have all the information that is needed to do so and we can’t set up experiments to check all the information that bombards us. Yet using the scientific method is not restricted to scientists. By maintaining an open, yet sceptical mind and checking the claims that are made about “super-foods” diets, alternative remedies, among many other products and services against scientifically verifiable information, each of us can avoid many of the pitfalls that we are faced with. Not everyone needs to become a scientist. But we should all engage with science and try to adopt a scientific world view. *  Glassom is based at the University of KwaZulu-Natal, School of Life Sciences. His interests are in the reproductive ecology and biology of corals, population structure and dynamics, recruitment at different spatiotemporal scales, effects of pollution and other anthropogenic stresses on coral reef organisms. Daily News