DURBAN - A taxi driver was killed on Thursday morning after the taxi he was driving collided with a tree on Lakeview Road in Chatsworth, Durban. Garrith Jamieson of Rescue Care said, “Rescue Care Paramedics arrived on the scene to find a taxi had collided with a tree. The driver was found inside the vehicle. He had sustained fatal injuries and there was nothing more paramedics could do for him. He was declared deceased on the scene. Fortunately there were no passengers in the taxi at the time of the collision.” The cause of the collision is unknown and the police are investigating. Earlier, a cyclist suffered moderate injuries after he was knocked over by a vehicle on the M7 near Hans Dettman Highway. When Rescue Care Paramedics arrived on the scene, they found the cyclist lying on the road. The victim had suffered moderate injuries and was stabilised on scene before being transported to a hospital. Meanwhile, Netcare 911 responded to two fatalities on Wednesday afternoon. According to Nick Dollman, one of their ambulances was travelling on the N3 near Lions River when the paramedics noticed that a vehicle had left the road and crashed into the concrete pillar of a bridge. “They stopped and immediately went to assist. They attended to a male driver who was believed to be in his forties. He was in cardiac arrest and they initiated CPR. Tragically, despite their efforts to resuscitate the man, his injuries were too severe and he died at the scene,” said Dollman. The road was partially closed as the vehicle was being recovered. In the other incident, Netcare responded to an incident where a farm died in a freak accident on a farm in Kamberg in the Midlands. Dollman said it appeared that the worker was riding in the bucket section of a front-end loader when he fell out and landed in the path of the machine. “Upon arrival, paramedics discovered that the victim had sustained severe injuries and was in cardiac arrest. Netcare 911 paramedics initiated an advanced life support resuscitation according to protocols. CPR was performed and the man was placed on a ventilator at the scene.” However, the 32-year-old died. Police are investigating both fatalities. Daily News