Speaking candidly about the purchase, the wife of a Durban-based detective said that each day there was an absolute need for police to be protected while performing their duties. “My husband loves being a police officer. His work is important to him and he takes such pride and honour in what he does. “I know that my husband became a policeman for a reason,” she said. They have been married for five years. She said she relies on the fact that even though her husband is often in dangerous situations, he is good at his job. Another police officer, who has been in the force for 16 years, said his family was constantly begging him to leave his job when he told them about his day. “For issues of crowd management we only use rubber bullets, but we get rocks and stones thrown at us. We get shot at with slings, our vehicles are petrol-bombed and, in some cases, we have live ammunition fired at us. “Many times we cannot get through to tense or volatile situations because of the ‘soft top’ cars and vans that will be damaged by stones and petrol bombs,” he said. The officer said protesters often attacked the police: “Is there a need for armoured vehicles? “Yes, we do need these vehicles, not to patrol on a daily basis, but to have the protection when we have to drive through areas where we are being stoned and shot at. “Yes, I am a police official and my job is to serve and protect the community of eThekwini, but am I supposed to be injured by criminal elements while doing so? “I’ve seen many of my colleagues injured from flying stones and rocks. I myself have scars from these episodes. Are our lives not important?” he asked. A third police officer, who has been in the service for more than 19 years, said he understood the mixed reaction to the purchase. “I am a father of three and every day my family is faced with the possibility that I may not come home. There is a need to be protected as a policeman. We are on the front lines of these attacks and criminals are more brazen now. Daily News