Whether or not the city would make this purchase depends on the outcome of an investigation into the decision, and procedures followed to procure these military vehicles. Nzuza, who took over as city manager in May, said he was new to his position, and needed to review the process and procurement plans undertaken by the previous management. Opposition parties and community activists lambasted the procurement after it emerged that the vehicles, valued at R19.9m, would be used by metro police for riot control during protests. In the past few months, the city has been hit by a number of violent service delivery protests. Last month, two people were injured when a petrol bomb was thrown into their truck during a protest on Umgeni Road. Later that day, a Durban Solid Waste truck was burnt. This month, a municipal bus was torched during a protest in Mayville. It was for this reason that police officers and their families had supported the city’s move to purchase the Casspirs. However, the DA had questioned if the municipality had become a “military state”. “The city integrity and investigations unit is looking into the procurement process. I was not party to the former decision and once we have the findings of the investigation, we will then report back to the executive committee,” Nzuza said. He said there was concern that the Casspirs were not meant for cities. “We cannot be making costly decisions that affect the municipality. For now, this matter is only in the procurement stage and we need to ask these questions,” said Nzuza. Due to the Casspirs being procured from Denel, a state-owned entity, Nzuza explained that there also needed to be an investigation to ensure that the correct procedure was followed. “If it is found that there were discrepancies in the process, there will be recourse. We have to ensure that the council was also informed of the decision to purchase. I cannot take any further decisions until the outcome of the investigation,” Nzuza said. Zwakele Mncwango, DA provincial leader, welcomed the city manager’s decision. “We have at least one official who listens. The municipality needs to focus on service delivery and not fight those who are asking for these services,” he said. Daily News