UPDATE: DURBAN – Looting continued unabated in parts of KwaMashu, north of Durban on Tuesday morning after a night of lawlessness where rampaging mobs fought running battles with thinly stretched police after a break-out of violence linked to xenophobia. Several shops belonging to foreigners were looted in KwaMashu, Lindelani and Ntuzuma on Monday with the rampage continuing throughout the night. On Tuesday morning residents of A-Section in KwaMashu were ripping the Amazambame Supermarket and Butchery apart piece by piece. There was no police presence. On Monday night, police came under fire when they responded to the chaos. Protesters stoned journalists' cars as they entered the township. The violence stemmed from an apparent social media hoax that claimed that foreigners were behind the abduction of children. Earlier in the day, there were reports on social media that five girls were abducted in KwaMashu. In the last week, social media was inundated with claims of foreign nationals abducting girls from various areas across the city. KwaZulu-Natal police slammed the violence and described the origins of the looting as nothing more than “fake news”. “As members of the community gathered to protest, criminal elements moved in and looted shops in the area. When police responded they were attacked by these criminals who also fired shots at police,” a police statement said on Tuesday. Acting Provincial Commissioner, Major General Bheki Langa said: “It is very disturbing to find that people continue to circulate fake information on social media causing unnecessary panic and fear. Unfortunately there are gullible members in our communities that believe everything they find posted on social media platforms by faceless individuals and who refuse to believe authorities. Even during the last week we have had reports of abductions and hijackings which were found to be untrue. At this stage we are investigating a case that was reported to SAPS where a couple are being accused on social media for being behind these fake abductions,” he said. He urged the community not to spread information that was unverified. He said people should check with mainstream media to verify if information is true. “Fortunately members of our media fraternity always check with SAPS before they publish information that might cause panic and fear amongst the community. As the SAPS we will always issue an official statement through the media as well as on our official social media accounts if there are any threats or crime trends that need to be brought to the attention of our communities,” added Major General Langa. Police were monitoring the situation at KwaMashu and Ntuzuma. “Those that were responsible for orchestrating the violence, looting and damage to property that was witnessed last night will be brought to book. The SAPS will not tolerate criminality and we call on the community of KwaMashu not to play into the hands of these criminals who are using your real concerns and fears to enrich themselves through the chaos they create,” said Langa Daily News        