DURBAN - The KwaZulu-Natal government was successful in fighting the theft of vehicles which are illegally crossed into Mozambique when six vehicles were recovered in a joint inter-provincial operation. Six vans were impounded and handed over to the police in oPhongolo. Three Mitsubishi Triton double cabs and one Pajero were stopped and found to have no proper documentation and their drivers had no driver’s licences. There suspects were also taken to oPhongolo Police Station, along with the vehicles. It was also established that one more vehicle, a Pajero, was left at Pongola Water and Sanitation while a sixth vehicle was found by the National Traffic Police, who were part of the Belgrade operation near uMkhuze. These vehicles were being stolen in a scheme involving the creation of fictitious order, apparently issued by Pongola Water and Sanitation. The value of the vehicles is estimated at R3.5 million and the scheme is believed to be part of the syndicate stealing bakkies from South Africa and crossed to Mozambique, via eMangusi. National and provincial governments, along with the police and locals, have launched an operation to fight these schemes, which involve, among others, joint operations involving different provinces. President Jacob Zuma, KZN premier Willies Mchunu and KZN Transport, Community Safety and Liaison MEC, Mxolisi Kaunda, are involved in several initiatives to fight these criminals. Kaunda said the development and recovery of the vehicles indicated that the government was winning the war against the criminals. “We are encouraged and applaud these breakthrough by the police and community crime fighting structures (Juluka Tsotsi). It just shows that partnership between police and the community can clearly defeat crime and criminals.” “We say bravo and let us continue this good work,” said Kaunda. Kaunda said the recovery of these vehicles was an indication that the joint efforts by various agencies of government and the community are yielding positive results. A number of initiatives, including reconstruction of eManguzi Police Station, launching a satellite police station in eSikemelele, one of the routes used by criminals, and the beefing up of both police and soldiers are being implemented. These include crime imbizo addressed by Zuma and meetings led by the provincial government. “We are satisfied that we are making a good progress in the battle against this scourge of vehicle theft,” said Kaunda. Daily News