In an interview with the Daily News at the City Hall on Thursday, Nzuza said the Port of Durban alone had massive opportunities. He said the provision of warehouses, beneficiation of cargo from overseas, ship maintenance and boat building provided that people are given land where they can open building workshops, and benefit the city and its economy. “Before I left Cape Town, I built a terminal for cruise ships and that played well for tourism. The Durban Port is the hub of our economy, the busiest on the African continent. I don’t see why we don’t tap into those benefits. Our waterfront line, for example, can be made a replica of Cape Town’s V&A Waterfront with the right resources in place.” Nzuza was the administrative head of the Port of Cape Town, and said he had had meetings with Transnet’s group chief executive with the view of sharing ideas and deals that would benefit both parties. “We talked about how we could turn Durban’s seaside (certain sections) into a replica of the Waterfront. We talked about moving Transnet’s headquarters from Johannesburg to Durban, which would make business sense for both.” He was concerned about the state of the Mahatma Gandhi (Point) Road area, saying it was an eyesore and monitoring by the municipality was needed. “I’m not sure whether we’re too relaxed, because there should be close monitoring of that area, and the rundown buildings, in particular. I have a wish to see all those buildings taken down in the process of developing our city. “We need to crack down on the owners and, if they can’t be found, the city must take charge and enforce the by-laws.” Asked if he would not be caught up in the city’s petty politics, and how would he avoid this, Nzuza said he was driven by the need to serve the people. Providing services to the ratepayers was his main focus and, with the team he had, he believed that they would accomplish service delivery. “During the budget hearings in various parts of the city, I was part of the delegation. I took notes and I realised that people are reasonable. All they want is service delivery, and that will be my focus,” he said. Nzuza was officially introduced to the city’s executive council on Thursday. He received a warm welcome at the Exco sitting at the City Hall. Mayor Zandile Gumede said: “We want you to help implement the people’s manifesto. We want to ensure that we don’t repeat the wrongs of the past, and we believe that you have the capability to lead this munici­pality. We want to be seen holding hands, working together for the betterment of our people.” Opposition parties vowed to work with him, provided he was available when needed. The DA’s Heinz de Boer urged Nzuza to do his job without being unduly influenced by anyone, and with no politics involved. He said they hoped that he would be a responsive city manager. “You have a very challenging job ahead of you. We look forward to working with you to take this city forward. I was fortunate to be part of the interview process and I’ll hold you to what you said during those interviews,” De Boer said. Daily News