“The question of foreign nationals’ attacks in this country, I hear a lot of people speaking that it would affect business, South African business, within the continent. It can’t be reduced to matters of business. The question of attacks on foreigners goes to our core values,” Makhubela said at the Durban Exhibition Centre. “It (attacks on foreign nationals) is against what we stand for as a country. It has nothing to do with a monetary impact. It is a social and a moral thing for us as South Africans. That is why the rest of South Africans are really against this attack on foreign nationals - irrespective of whether it makes money or not. It is a moral issue that we need to address.” Sporadic incidents of violence targeted at foreign nationals often flare up in different parts of South Africa. Over the years, several people have been killed in the violence, despite the national government’s initiatives to foster tolerance between citizens and millions of immigrants. Makhubela was speaking to ANA on the sidelines of the 27th World Economic Forum (Africa) being hosted in Durban. More than 1000 leaders from more than 100 countries, representing business, government, academia, civil society, media and the arts are in Durban for the WEF meeting, this year themed “Achieving Inclusive Growth through Responsive and Responsible Leadership”. Makhubela said the WEF was a premier platform and “a meeting of minds”. “It brings African leaders, both from business and civil society, together to chart a way forward in terms of the economic development of the continent, but also to deal with related matters that are hindering development, or matters that might really enhance the economic development of the country,” Makhubela said. Brand South Africa is to host a Thought Leadership Breakfast with business and government stakeholders (WEF Africa delegates) to explore and deliberate on the role of business in achieving inclusive growth. The discussions will enable participants to share insights on how best to navigate the future and explore collaborative actions that could shape the global, regional and industry agendas to provide real benefit to the African continent. - African News Agency