Naidoo was talking to the Daily News just before his book launch at AM Moolla Spes Nova, a school for the physically challenged in Phoenix on Sunday. “It’s a good thing that I will never go back to government. I wrote this book to examine issues from the time I left government in 1999. It’s about the challenges I faced in the past; about hunger and unemployment throughout the African continent. It speaks about the return to basics and rules about organising,” Naidoo said. He said the “biggest” challenge for the current unhappiness among the people was the lack of political will in leadership. “Politics has become a business opportunity for some people because governing parties always determine a position in government. The big debate in the world centres around state capture. Young people are getting disinterested in government issues because they question what their vote would mean if they voted,” Naidoo said. He said South Africa was the protest capital of the world and that administratively things could be worse without the existing civic organisations seeking accountability. Asked what his thoughts were about radical economic transformation and the manner in which its defenders handled the call, Naidoo said this could not be divorced from education and training. “The fundamental strategy for transformation is prioritising education and training and the imparting of the right skills to empower young people. We need the right skills for the future because duties in the workplace will become robotic. With about 40 million people going to bed hungry, what you hear talked about much these days is factionalism instead of how to empower the poor.” He called for the transfer of land and skills to communities and not to individuals through BEE and other programmes that enrich individuals. “If these are transferred to communities, then the economic transformation will be achieved. Global data shows that 5-6% of jobs are created through renewable energy so such programmes should be the focus of job creation,” he said. In his book - Change. Organising tomorrow, today - the former unionist and later a minister in Nelson Mandela’s cabinet until 1999, explores ways of solving some of the world’s biggest problems by presenting options for ending poverty and global warming. He said unless there was a significant change, the world was heading for an explosion as the growing gap between rich and poor was unsustainable and the plundering of resources was damaging the planet. In and outside the launch venue, people voiced their support for Naidoo’s views on the current system and his view on how those in power should be putting the interests of the general public first. Iyaloo Naidoo (no relation), a Newlands West resident who attended the launch, said it was “deceiving” to say a political party was a problem. “The problem is not the party, but the system. British parliamentarians vacate office and clear their names if they are accused of a scandal. Here at home, nothing can be done until someone is proven guilty by the courts. All that’s needed is for leaders to step down and prove their innocence, then maybe we can have trustworthy people as leaders,” he said. Daily News