Speaking to the Daily News on Monday, Mandla Shange, the ANCYL KZN spokesperson, said the policy, which had been introduced by axed SABC chief operating officer Hlaudi Motsoeneng last year, had evoked patriotism in South Africans for local artists and music, as citizens had passion for local artists and their music. In a staunch defence of the policy, which saw local radio stations compelled to play 90% local music, Shange said the SABC’s interim board had acted beyond its jurisdiction when scrapping the policy. “Our argument is that the 90% local content policy is an SABC policy, and the board has no right to do away with this policy, because there is no basis to scrap it.” “It is not true that listenership has been dwindling. If that is so, they (the SABC board) need to show us scientific research to prove their claims. “The policy promoted patriotism in South Africans because it is clear that South Africans love their local artists,” Shange said. The ANCYL KZN, added Shange, was in the process of finalising plans for a march to the Durban City Hall to hand over a memorandum of grievances to SABC bosses. A date was yet to be confirmed. The board had been appointed by President Jacob Zuma in late March. It consisted of Khanyisile Kweyama (chairperson), Mathatha Tsedu (deputy chairperson), Krish Naidoo, Febbe Potgieter-Gqubule and John Mattison. Shange said the Youth League intended on engaging with the SABC’s national leadership and “all other stakeholders concerned”, including newly appointed Communications Minister Ayanda Dlodlo, as soon as possible. Yesterday, Kaizer Kganyago, SABC spokesperson, refused to detail the reasons for the board’s decision to send the policy to the scrap heap less than a year after it came into effect last July. He said Shange’s statement that the board had no business terminating policies was incorrect because policy issues were the responsibility of the board. “Every policy at the SABC needs board approval,” Kganyago said. “It is not something we want to put in the public space, but when the board was appointed, they had the directive that if they felt policies had had a negative impact on the organisation, they would review it, and that is what they have done. 90% local “The issue of 90% local content is not the only issue that the board is dealing with,” said Kganyago. The board, Kganyago said, still had to appoint a new chief executive and chief operating officer, and was also charged with bringing the beleaguered organisation out of its financial crisis, among other issues. “They still have to advertise the posts for the CEO and the COO and conduct interviews, but the process of finalising the adverts is already under way,” said Kganyago. He added that people who wanted to engage with the public broadcaster’s interim board on its decisions should feel free to do so. Daily News