Dr Mvuyisi Mzukwa, Sama’s eThekwini chairperson, told the Daily News yesterday that they were “disappointed” in Dhlomo, who decided to “see conspiracy” instead of dealing with the pressing issues affecting employees and patients. “We have heard that our march was sponsored by the DA, and that is not true. All we did was raise issues which we have been raising for years. We are disappointed because we have no control over what political parties write and send to the media when our members embark on a march. “It’s the MEC himself who attracted attention to the issues which we have been trying to resolve with the department,” Mzukwa said. He said services were not affected by the march as some members were posted in strategic positions in hospitals. Mzukwa said a meeting was scheduled this week between the department and the unions, and hoped it would produce the desired outcome. However, the association did not take lightly the allegation that the march was sponsored by the DA. “We will meet with our leadership and legal representatives to deliberate on this allegation and decide on the next step,” Mzukwa said. On Friday, the association and the two unions handed over a memorandum to the department head, Dr Sifiso Mtshali, who then assured the doctors that it would be handed to the MEC. Among the grievances are the lack of, or broken, equipment; dilapidated buildings; unfilled vacant posts; and working additional hours without compensation. Mzukwa said they had a meeting yesterday to  discuss the outcomes of the march. “We are happy with the turn-out because there were more than 1000 doctors and nurses from as far as kwaNongoma and Ulundi. “We have also discussed our upcoming meeting with the department scheduled for tomorrow and we are hoping that these issues will be resolved amicably,” he said. Through his spokesperson, Desmond Motha, Dhlomo said: “We will not be responding to Sama through the media. We have a scheduled meeting with them this week.” The DA, IFP and Medical Rights Advocacy Network (Meran) have called for urgent intervention in the KZN health “crisis”. Imran Keeka, DA MPL, confirmed Dhlomo’s motion in the legislature on Tuesday before the march took place. “It was disturbing. MEC Dhlomo is completely out of touch with reality because the issues raised by the marching doctors have been raised for years. He can’t write off what Sama says and what we have been saying all the time,” Keeka said. Ncamisile Nkwanyana, IFP health spokesperson, said it was time for Premier Willies Mchunu’s intervention if the department was to be saved. “We hear that doctors are leaving for greener pastures, but we know this is not true. These doctors run away because of the awful working conditions in government health-care facilities,” she said. Dr Punita Naidoo, Meran spokesperson, said the MEC “never came up with solutions to the health crisis”. “Staff and doctors from various health-care facilities have told us that they were threatened not to speak out about the conditions at these facilities. “We don’t want politicians politicising the health sector because that will be a crime against humanity,” she said. Daily News