Mthoko Mchunu and a friend were allegedly attacked by the dogs. The policemen are based at the Shongweni SAPS K9 Unit. Speaking to the Daily News, Mchunu said he and his friend were seated in a car, parked in Claremont, when they were approached by the policemen on Thursday, April 20. “The officers asked us to get out of the car and they began searching us. One of the policemen said I looked familiar and I asked him what he meant. He then told me I looked like the man who hijacked his sister’s car. “I did not know what he was talking about, and they ordered my friend and I to lie down,” Mchunu said. He said the police officers continued to point firearms at them and a crowd had gathered to watch. Some filmed the incident with their cellphone cameras. “The officers told us to get into their car and drove to a vacant lot between Westville and Reservoir Hills where they continued to interrogate us about the hijacking. “Again, we told them that we did not know what they were talking about. I told the policeman to do his job and look for the right person, and he told me I had a big mouth. “They then set their dogs on us. The attack lasted from about 8pm, into the early parts of the next morning,” Mchunu claimed. The officers then allegedly demanded R10000 from the two men. Mchunu said he called his brother, but he could not come up with the money. He called his sister who managed to pay R6000. “My sister has a daily limit of R3000 and had to get the remaining R3000 from a loan shark. The police told her that if she did not give them the money by 5am, they should rather use the money to buy my casket. “My sister deposited the money into accounts and gave the officers the details of how to withdraw the cash,” said Mchunu. By this time, Mchunu and his friend were seriously injured and the officers allegedly gave them a firearm to hold. “They wanted us to get our fingerprints on the gun and told us we would be charged with possession of a firearm. “They first took us to the Pinetown police station and then to a clinic in KwaDabeka, but the nursing staff said our injuries were too severe for them to treat and they had to take us to RK Khan Hospital in Chatsworth,” Mchunu said. Minutes before he spoke to the Daily News, Mchunu had to have his wounds cleaned and new bandages applied at a local clinic. Because of the nature of his injuries, Mchunu is temporarily confined to a wheelchair. He said his ear and left arm were wounded, with large chunks of flesh having been bitten off by the dogs. “I am living in fear and want these men to be punished. I do not live at home any more as it has become difficult to move around with a wheelchair. “My girlfriend has to bath me and my family is shocked that police officers could behave this way,” he said. Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane, provincial police spokesperson, confirmed that a case was opened by Mchunu. “The accused, who is the complainant in this case, has opened a case of assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm at KwaDabeka police station and the case is still under investigation,” said Zwane. Moses Dlamini, Ipid national spokesperson, said a case had been received by Ipid. “We have made arrangements to obtain the statements of some of the witnesses,” Dlamini said. Daily News