More than 20000 people took part in the annual event from uShaka Marine World to the Moses Mabhida Stadium. Nompilo Buthelezi used the occasion to meet up with her friends, Buhle Ncanana, Snothile Buthelezi and Khula Buthelezi, who travelled from Nquthu, Richards Bay and KwaMaphumulo. They took part in the 5km race which was being  held for the first time at the event. “We decided to run 1km, walk 20 metres and run another kilometre,” Khula said. She said she also wanted to take part because she would be able to do a much-needed workout. All agreed to return for another Big Walk next year. A number of people in the crowds had several Big Walks under their belts. Terri Cranke, a mother of two of La Lucia, said it was her fifth Big Walk. She enjoyed walking and was able to get a workout at the event. She did the 20km walk and said the best part was the jovial atmosphere. The good organisation also played a pivotal role in her enjoyment. Some used the Big Walk as an opportunity to expose people to traditional African games. One game on show, called ingqathu, consists of people playing with a skipping rope, and a team of 12 showed people how it was done. Nkosinathi Ntombela, who has been playing the game for the past eight years, explained that it kept him focused and away from drugs and crime. The team’s coach, Musa Maphisa, said that with the support of the Department of Sport and Recreation, they had gone to countries like Russia, Indonesia and Lithuania where they had demonstrated their skills. The Big Walk also highlighted serious issues like childhood cancer. Dressed in their black-and-white cow outfits, The Cows is a group which raises funds for and awareness of Childhood Cancer. Julia Varty, a member of The Cows, said: “We are doing this for awareness. It has been amazing.” Steven Scarff, also from The Cows, said the event brought a diversity of people together for a good cause. “We are just proud to be a part of it and we enjoy socialising along the route,” he said. Daily News