This is despite their cries that they were already battling to survive on government grants and already have to pay more than R1350 rent, excluding electricity. “I just cannot afford another increase when I am already in arrears,” said a worried Cynthia van Rensberg. The rent for the two-and-a-half bedroom apartments at the Upper and Lower Kenneth Gardens, Umbilo, will increase to just over R1490 and by 2021, it will go up to just over R2180 excluding lights. This new increase was approved by the eThekwini Executive Committee (Exco) yesterday, although the opposition DA objected. The ANC and the IFP voted for the increase. Some residents in other units around the city will still pay below R1000 with the amount increasing annually. Landsdowne, Canelands, Old Umbilo, Chesterville, Westgate Gardens and Kirkwood Gardens are also among the affected areas. Kenneth Gardens (Upper and Lower) tenants commented anonymously yesterday about the increase for fear of victimisation. However, their sentiments about the increase were shared by those who spoke on the record. According to the report tabled at Exco, despite the increases, all rentals received from the units were significantly below current market price because the differences between the base rent and market rent was too high. Any attempts to close the gap would be unaffordable to the target market. Initially, rentals were geared to incomes and the majority of tenants at these units earned less than R3500. There had also been no meaningful maintenance budget allocations for the homes and, as a result, some are in a state of disrepair, thus attracting low rentals, according to the report. How a section of the item appeared in the city's agenda on Tuesday:  Residents are questioning the increase which for some, would mean having to pay more than their monthly “earnings”. “If they are aware of our predicament, how then do they justify this increase?” fumed a man who did not want to be named. “Look around. All the flats are dilapidated, filthy and easily accessible to whoonga addicts and criminals who more than once dumped hijacked or stolen cars here.” Some tenants have lived at the flats for more than 30 years and complained that they were “rotting from inside out”. Van Rensberg, who lives on a monthly R1500 government grant, said she had lived in her flat for 30 years. “My roof throughout the two-and-a-half room unit is peeling off. I had to wait for 14 months when my geyser packed up and my rent is R2300, including lights. “My son, who has since lost his job, used to help me with the rent and I guess now that it will increase, I can simply wait to be kicked out because there’s nothing I can do in this situation.” Some residents questioned the administration, saying that some tenants drove expensive cars while the majority battled to survive. They further claimed that their electricity bills were higher than the rent, and that it would be easier if pre-paid meters were installed. Neighbours Lebu Mthembu and Andrew Grand said the increase would put more pressure on people. Mthembu has lived in his home for 13 years and believes that some tenants do not qualify to be there. “There are some people taking advantage. Out of desperation, some people take in sub-tenants to pay the rent. “I have a part-time job earning about R2000, add to that the responsibility of three mouths to feed. Things are going to get worse for us,” Mthembu said. Another tenant, Zanele Gumbi, claimed some councillors lived in the flats, but they were meant for the poor. “These councillors earn enough to be in better housing. “The place is rat-infested and whoonga addicts and criminals are doing as they wish here,” Gumbi said. The Daily News reported in 2014 that Nigel Gumede, then-chairman of eThekwini’s Human Settlement and Infrastructure committee, said he did not know if councillors were paying market-related rentals at the units. During the tabling of the report yesterday, DA councillor Heinz de Boer requested that the report be taken back to the human settlements committee for review to include hostels. Mondli Mthembu, chairperson of the human settlement and infrastructure development committee, shot down the request. “If you look at the hostel conditions, they are pigstyes; the rented units are better,” Mthembu said. eThekwini Mayor Zandile Gumede said: “The only way to control the rental stock is to ensure that occupants pay, but if there are indigent people then a plan would be made for them.” Mdu Nkosi, the IFP’s Exco member, said the party supported the increase because the municipality needed money to afford renovation material. “Some of those flats are in a bad state and somehow municipal employees are blamed. Some councillors, I’m aware, occupy some units on a municipal programme to protect them. Some have bodyguards while some were placed in flats after their lives were threatened.” Daily News