The first was among the local leaders of the #FeesMustFall movement, Bonginkosi Khanyile, who graduated cum laude with a National Diploma in Public Management and Economics. He was recently released on R250 bail after being held at Westville prison for five months on public violence charges. He was released after an application made to the Constitutional Court. The second was Ntokozo Zulu, who was arrested a few times for theft. He has turned his life around and graduated with a Master’s degree in Language Studies. Speaking about his time in prison, Khanyile said: “Prison is very traumatic. What kept us going was reading revolutionary material.” He said he was inspired by Nelson Mandela and Dikgang Moseneke, who spent their time on Robben Island reading and studying. He said this was unlike other leaders who spent their time playing chess and soccer at the prison, making reference to President Jacob Zuma. Khanyile said he felt humbled by his achievement. He thanked EFF leader Julius Malema for supporting him through the tough times he faced while in jail. Khanyile remained resolute in the call for free education, adding: “We owe South Africans a final round of #FeesMustFall”. His graduation was attended by EFF members of parliament, including advocate Dali Mpofu who is also the EFF’s national chairperson. Khanyile thanked the organisation, friends and family for standing by him through difficult times. He said he was now looking for employment and had also started studying towards his BTech in Public Management and Economics. Zulu said the death of a friend and being arrested set him on a course to change his life. Mother From eMpangeni, he is one of six children. He came from a poor background and was raised by a single mother. After completing his studies he fell in with the wrong crowd and was arrested a few times. In 2008, he registered at DUT and began studying. Knowing his background, people who knew him did not believe that he could be successful. “People had lost hope in me and given up. I used it as motivation to do well,” he said. During high school, he always had an interest in poetry. When he arrived at DUT he joined its poetry society and found there were performances of poetry in isiZulu. From there his love of poetry blossomed. To get by, he managed to get part-time jobs to sustain himself and when he found a stable job he used the money to support his family back home in eMpangeni. Things took a turn for the worse in 2014 when he was involved in an accident and he had to spend more than a year away from his studies. “It was a frustrating time for me as I saw my friends graduating while I couldn’t do anything.” He recovered and was back to studying and eventually completed his Master’s degree. He also became president of DUT’s poetry society. He is behind a poetry show on uKhozi FM that has been running for more than a year. Zulu said: “Everyone must dream and you must support your dream by working hard.” He said his advice for youth was to have an inquisitive mind and gain knowledge so that they did not repeat the mistakes of their predecessors. Daily News