DURBAN - With less than a week to go before the start of this year’s Comrades Marathon, the up run from Durban to Pietermaritzburg will take a new twist. The route has been shortened by 2.27 kms, with anticipation building that the up run record time of 5:24:49, set by Russia’s Leonid Shvetsov in 2008 could be broken. The Comrades Marathon Association announced earlier this year that the new route will be shortened just after the top of the gruelling Polly Shortts stretch. Legendary ultra-marathon runner, Bruce Fordyce who held the up run record more than 20 years before Shvetsov broke it, said there was a real possibility that the shortened route – which will be 86.73 km long – could lead to a new record. But before anyone can think of breaking the record, Fordyce said, loads of preparations needs to be undertaken. “It is crucial for runners to drive the route, especially with the new changes which are very unfamiliar to returning runners and certainly to me but also for the magnitude of the marathon to sink in, runners need to go into the race afraid, if they are brave they will not be successful,” he said. “The last few kilometres have a bit more bends and twists which could be tricky for novice runners in particular”. “ I will be giving live commentary on the day, so I'll be in one of the cars, following the runners”. The 2017 Comrades Panel Talk held last week at the renowned Prime Human Performance Institute, revealed some hidden secrets to conquering Comrades the first time round. A feat that will no doubt be much easier this year due to the new distance. Speakers included Fordyce, ASICS frontrunner Faizel Ally, Dennis Jackson a biokineticist who has run the Comrades eight times, followed by Keri Strachan sports dietician and Ayanda Dlungwane a novice up run Comrades runner. The panel answered all comrades questions. Ally, who will be running his 10th Comrades Marathon this year will receive his green number. A merit or Roll of Honour that acknowledges a runner who has acquired either 3 wins, 5 golds or 10 plus medals. Ally, explained how the marathon changed his life."The Comrades is my pilgrimage, every kilometre is dedicated to something or someone in my life,” he said. Ally's green flag will be presented to him by another Comrades great, Alan Robb, winner of four Comrades. Dlungwane ran the comrades for the first time last year. The need to get healthy and lose weight initially motivated him to run. For months he shrugged off training until three months prior to the Comrades. "The support that I got along the route kept me going, especially when I saw my wife and family past half-way,” said Dlungwane. Jackson also gave a different perspective of ultra marathon running from a more technical and scientific point of view stating, the key to finishing in time or finishing well is to conserve as much energy as you can during the first half of the race. Strachan emphasised the importance of staying hydrated throughout, "It's important to find a balance between salt as well as sugar, if you’re someone who sweats excessively then energy drinks are more suitable, also snacks like dry wors, peanut butter or peanuts and raisins are excellent”. Fordyce further emphasised the importance of rest. In the 30 races that he has run, he attributes his success to following the same routine. “I’ve won the race 9 times but I also have 11 gold medals, I have followed the same training routine throughout, of course over the years it's been tweaked here and there but it has remained basically the same.   Fordyce's tips for running a successful race: In the last week before the race you should train as follows; Monday: Run 10km gently Tuesday: Run 10km gently Wednesday: Run 5 km gently Thursday: Nothing Friday: Nothing Saturday: Nothing Sunday: Run 90 km!   "There’s no such thing as a perfect run,” says Fordyce. “The comrades is the only race that matters, it’s the only race that will identify you as a great runner so put all your focus and energy into it.”  Daily News 