The law, called Regulation 250 of the National Road Traffic Act, bans children from being transported in the goods section of a van for a reward. The Daily News spoke to a driver who scoffed at the law on Thursday: “The law is overboard and is not practical. The Department of Transport is doing this for show only. “They will have a difficult time implementing it in the townships where many people use bakkies for transport." “It is not only bakkies that cause accidents, but taxis too. “Look at the accident that happened in Ntuzuma where four children died. It was a taxi and not a bakkie that was responsible,” he said. The driver said he was not afraid of getting caught because the worst that could happen was that he would receive a fine. He transports 11 children in his van. “Some parents have raised concerns about the bakkie but the owner said he was currently fixing a Toyota Condor that he would use in July to transport the children.” When asked if he would like his children to be transported in bakkies, he said: “I don’t mind as long as the car is in a good condition and the driver is a good driver.” Mluleki Mntungwa, spokesperson for Transport MEC Mxolisi Kaunda, said they had long started clamping down on bakkies being used for transport. They would impound any vehicles transporting children for profit, he said. “We can’t say how many people have been caught since the law came into effect because we are still collecting information,” he said. “We call on bakkie operators to cease transporting children to schools using these vehicles,” Mntungwa said. It was not only bakkie operators he took umbrage at, but parents as well. “Parents need to ensure that their children are not transported to school using these vehicles.” Mntungwa said the department was trying to ensure that children were being transported through its scholar transport system which transported about 40000 children from 300 schools in the province. He admitted there was a huge delay in covering the entire province. Sicelo Khuzwayo, from the KZN Department of Education, said the current government transport system for schoolchildren was inadequate. He also said parents should make sure the vehicles that transported their children were in a good condition. “We don’t want to be in a situation where we are mourning the deaths of young children.” Daily News