SuperSport United... (1) 4 Mnyamane 30, Daniels 49, Brockie, Phala 90+ Cape Town City........ (1) 2 Majoro 7, Manyama 61   Lucas Moripe Stadium - SuperSport United jumped to 4th place position after they beat Cape Town City on Tuesday night. The result also denied the Cape outfit a chance to move to second place in the league standings, in what could have turned out to be a three horse race to the finishing line in this PSL race. SuperSport coach Stuart Baxter, who will step into his new coaching job at Safa by next month, couldn’t believe what he was seeing during opening minutes of the first half. One of his trusted and highly experienced defenders, Clayton Daniels, played an unnecessary back pass to his shot-stopper Ronwen Williams, where a clearance would have been much preferred. Lehlohonolo Majoro and his attacking partners were looming. Williams was aware of that danger, and tried to launch the ball forward. However, he couldn’t get it forward. Roland Putsche intercepted it, heading it into the path of Majoro who was unmarked. The central forward made use of the opportunity and struck it home with a rocket of a shot. Williams stood no chance as he watched it embrace the back of the net. What made Baxter more livid after conceding that early goal was that his side were presented with clear scoring opportunities early on in the match. Thabo Mnyamane gave his side a lifeline going into the break, after winning a one-on-one  battle with Walters. In the second half, Walters made the same mistake that saw him concede the first goal. SuperSport were pressing forward in the opening ten minutes, and managed to be awarded two set pieces for their efforts to try and unlock their opponents’ defence. They could only managed to convert one. Mnyamane struck in a beautiful curled shot, however, Walters was well positioned to keep it out. His hands were too slippery though and that’s where the opposition side punished him. Daniels blasted it home, making up for a defensive error he had committed in the game. But The Citizens soon got back into it when Majoro was fouled inside the penalty area. Captain Lebohang Manyama struck a powerful shot to put his side back in the game. Brockie converted a third for Matsatsantsa following superb assist from from Aubrey Modiba, while Phala scored the fourth in the final minute of the match.  @Mohau_Ra  Independent Media