DURBAN – The four men who had a hand in the murder of Empangeni policeman, Niren Ramsaroop have been handed heavy sentences for his death. Ramsaroop, 40, a Warrant Officer was gunned down while chasing armed bandits who had robbed a group of ladies of R110 000 in stokvel money in November 2015. On Friday, the Durban High Court sentenced Thuthukani Mbonambi (43) and Senzo Ndlovu (32) to life imprisonment. Their accomplices, Nhlakanipho Zulu (28), a bank teller and Sibusiso Mthabela (25) were both sentenced to 20 years imprisonment. On November 14, 2015, Warrant Officer Ramsaroop was on patrol at Empangeni town centre with colleagues, when three women approached them. They reported that they had been robbed of a bag containing R110 000 in cash. The women claimed that they had withdrawn stokvel money from a local bank and were accosted by the accused shortly after leaving the bank. Ramsaroop spotted Mbonambi and managed to grab hold of him. Mbonambi pulled out a gun and shot Ramsaroop in the chest but he was able to return fire and shot him in the leg. Mbonambi was arrested at the scene. One of the men managed to escape. A 7.65mm pistol, with its serial number erased, was recovered at the scene. Investigations by Richards Bay Hawks Serious Organised Crime Unit soon led led to the arrest of Ndlovu who was with Mbonambi during the shooting whilst Mthabela and Zulu were linked after they were found to have been accomplices to the crime. In addition to the firearm that was used to kill Ramsaroop, another unlicensed handgun and almost R30 000 of the stolen money were seized.  The Acting National Head of the Hawks, Lieutenant General Yolisa Matakata has congratulated the Richards Bay Serious Organised Crime Unit for the outstanding detective work. “I want to commend the contribution of everyone in the justice system for collaborating and ensuring that the perpetrators of this heinous crime are in jail. These sentences augurs very well for the Hawks and all our partners that through dedication and relentless pursuit of the case, resulted in these life sentences. I congratulate the entire team and urge them to continue to do more,” said Matakata. Daily News