The first Jumma (Friday) prayers were due to be held today and, thereafter, the regulation five-times-a-day gatherings will be held. Now known as Musjid Maryam, it is the first mosque in this country to be named after a woman, Mother Mary – who is revered in both Islam and Christianity. Architect Yusuf Patel, who led the transformation team which saw master craftsmen from Morocco being brought out for the assignment, said: “The city has regained its lost spiritual space.” He added that the mosque and the adjacent hall, which has also been renovated, were due to become a popular venue not only for Muslims, but for all people. Patel said that he saw this complex bringing people back into the inner city not only during the day, but over weekends and the evenings. Lindsay Napier, known as a “heritage architect”, was part of the high-powered team which ensured the success of the project. The view of the building from the street remains unchanged from when it was built in 1906. Inside, a multimillion-rand transformation creates a serene place of worship with a special section for women. Plush red, richly textured carpets, Islamic artworks created by Moroccan artisans, and verses from the Holy Qur’an in Arabic calligraphy bring a new dimension to a historic CBD venue. The roof and ceiling have been replaced, and there is a state-of-the-art public address system, sophisticated air conditioners, controlled lighting and aluminium and glass doors. Only one stained glass window remains, and some of the old ceramic tile floors. Pressed metal ceilings have been restored to their original condition. Two fireplaces at the back of the building have been uncovered and will form part of the external wall. Spokesman Radian Asvat said that it was significant that there was a mosque in the middle of the “Heritage Trail” which runs through the CBD. “It could not happen in the past, because of the Group Areas Act and the apartheid regime. The community was limited to just two mosques, in Grey and West streets,” said Asvat. He said the refurbished building added to the quiet urban renewal going on in Samora Machel Street, with buildings being revamped. Two institutions of higher learning, Regent and Mancosa colleges, are now also part of the landscape. Ahmed Shaik, director of Regent Business School, will be delivering the Jumma prayers. The historic church, which was built in 1906, served Christians until the mid 1990s, when it was closed and was converted to business premises. Daily News