This awareness drive follows many other intervention strategies, such as the WhatsApp reporting line, to make it easier for consumers to report water leaks, bursts and other water-related queries. At a recent executive committee (Exco) meeting, the opposition DA and the IFP had different views on the justification of spending R3million, R800000 and R225000 on billboards, posters and T-shirts respectively. The DA was scathing about the idea of spending “so much money” on billboards instead of buying more water tanks that could serve as reserves in areas adversely affected during water outages. “Spending money on this doesn’t make sense because there are many other forms of communication. We have a crisis, so I’d understand if you wanted to use the money on water tanks,” 
said DA provincial leader Zwakele Mncwango. There have been scheduled water interruptions from 7pm to 6am in various parts of the city. A  report tabled at Exco stated that the billboards and street poles would be placed strategically to attract the attention of drivers and pedestrians, while the T-shirts would also be an advertising and marketing tool. Mondli Mthembu, human settlements and infrastructure committee chairperson, said this awareness drive would be directed more at townships because rural people were conserving water more than township residents. “In townships, you find car washes which waste water. We believe there will be a drastic drop in water wastage as a result of this drive,” he said. Philemon Mashoko, deputy city manager: trading services cluster, said posters and billboards would motivate people to act when they saw a water leak or other wastage. The DA’s Heinz De Boer also tore into the report. “When last has the head of water and sanitation come to this committee to report on what plans are in place to deal with the water crisis? “This is unacceptable,” De Boer said. Mdu Nkosi, an IFP committee member, supported the initiative. He said it would show people how serious the city was about water conservation. “Smaller municipalities have these billboards and we should be among them if we are serious about water conservation,” Nkosi said. Daily News