The 21-year-old passed matric with flying colours in 2013 at Myeka High School near Botha’s Hill, an impoverished school which lacks basic amenities and infrastructure. But the good news was tempered by the shattering of his childhood dream to attend university because his family did not have the financial means. He had always harboured the wish to be self-supporting and to take care of his poor family. Cele is the eldest son of Fortunate Cele, 43, a domestic helper who works for a family in Westville. She did not have the means to send Cele to university. However, with the help of the Daily News, after his plight was published in the newspaper, a benefactor in the form of Renwood Carriers came forward. Paid The company not only paid for his three years of study at the Durban University of Technology, but also gave him holiday work to take care of his financial needs and to help him gain experience. Cele was thankful to his mom for inspiring him to do well in his matric year, and to Renwood Carriers for helping him fulfil his dream. He was also grateful to the Daily News for publishing his plight, failing which he would not have found a sponsor to help him realise his ambitions. “My mom inspired me to excel in my studies. In my matric year, she also enrolled to study matric courses and we studied together. Had it not been for this inspiration, I would not have done so well. “But I will also be eternally grateful to Renwood Carriers for putting me through my studies and employing me. Now I’m a full-time employee at Renwood Carriers and I will be loyal to them. Thank you to the Daily News for finding me a benefactor, otherwise my dream would still be that.” Renwood Carriers chief executive Ren Moodley said he was thrilled with Cele’s achievement and satisfied that his company was able to assist him to realise his dream. “We have assisted others in the past and will continue to help those in need in the future.” He said that Cele was an excellent staff member with a pleasant disposition. Cele’s mother said she was proud of her son’s achievement. “He worked consistently during his three years of study while he held down a holiday job. “I’m thrilled and over the moon that he has finally achieved what he wanted to be.” Daily News