Wood was the Auxiliary Bishop in the Catholic Archdiocese in Durban, under the headship of Cardinal Wilfrid Napier. Speaking to the Daily News on Wednesday, Napier said Wood’s death was a huge loss. The pair met in 1992 while Wood was based within the Oblate in Cedara. Their working together meant seeing each other regularly and when Wood was made the Auxiliary Bishop in 2006, it meant spending every afternoon together, often laughing or sharing memories over a cup of tea. Napier said Wood ensured that he fulfilled his duties, often despite feeling unwell. “On Palm Sunday, it was very hot and he took part in the procession around town. He was perspiring under his garb but because of his passion, commitment and dedication to his duties, he continued,” said Napier. He added that the two shared many fond memories but he would always remember Wood for his ability to begin every sermon with a story. “He loved to talk and had a wonderful sense of humour. I cannot even tell you how he managed to remember each story as I cannot remember so many stories myself,” said Napier. He said Wood would be remembered for his heart and passion for young people. Napier took to Twitter to express his sentiments on the loss of his dear friend. “Feeling lost & at sea because of sudden death of my Auxiliary & Friend, Bishop Barry Wood OMI! Timely reminder our health is really fragile!” Napier tweeted. Raymond Perrier, director at the Denis Hurley Centre, said Wood was a great supporter and a friend to the centre. He explained that since it opened, Wood attended many functions at the centre and was always generous; spending time with staff, volunteers and service users. “We were delighted to be able to make him guest of honour at our Junior Schools Choir Concert in February as a premature celebration of his 75th birthday which would have been on June 13. “It is a mark of his big heart that he agreed to share the honour of the day (and the cutting of the cake) with Father John Patterson OMI who was celebrating his 93rd birthday that very week. “I have no doubt that he is now being warmly welcomed in eternity by Archbishop Hurley and Our Lady of Lourdes herself,” he said. Daily News