  “Much as there are men and women who strive for high ethical stands and moral values in the conduct of their daily duties, there are, however, rotten apples within the system that must be unearthed and uprooted,” Mbalula said.  Mbalula and his deputy Bongani Mkongi were leading a delegation of the department’s top brass to make budget presentations to the Parliament’s portfolio committee on police on Tuesday.  It was his first appearance before parliament since President Jacob Zuma reshuffled his cabinet a few weeks ago.  “It is in the interest of the society that we expose and root out corrupt elements within the police service through a policy of zero tolerance to corruption and mismanagement.  “We need all hands on deck as we embark on the fight to combat crime and corruption, and to reclaim the streets from criminals and restore peace and order.”  Mbalula also said the task given to them by Zuma a month ago was to reclaim the streets from criminals and also crush the “serpent” crime with brute force. “The president’s marching order to us is to end criminality by skillful manoeuvring or by brute force. We must crush the head of serpent,” he said, adding that they would seize all illegal weapons and “silence” all the guns in 2020. “We are here to end the violence. We must reclaim the streets, restore the dignity of citizens and the pride of men and women in blue,” said the self-styled “Minister Vasbyt”.  Also recalling the police mandate as contained in the Constitution, Mbalula said they were tasked to combat, prevent and investigate crime, as well as maintain public order and secure South Africans and their property.  The police, he said were, required to uphold and enforce the law. “This is a towering challenge we have been grappling with as a civilian secretariat and the police service. “The deputy minister and I are here to provide impetus to the realisation of the stated objectives as enjoined by the Constitution, and as a demonstration of civic duty.”  Sketching out some of his visions for the department, Mbalula said safety and security were a prerequisite to investment. “Crime is a form of economic sabotage, hence we must tackle it head on,” he said. “We must all be vigilant in defence of the gains of our freedom. “Our debate over the next two years must take into account both domestic and international experience to inform our programme of action against crime,” he said.  Mbalula named safety at institutions of learning; safety of women, children and senior citizens, and engaging youth in conflict with law through sport, as well as transformation within SAPS as being among the priorities his department would focus on in the next two years.  However. during the budget hearing, parliamentarians heard that 76.1% of the overall SAPS R87.9 billion budget will be spent on employee costs in the 2017-18 financial year.  According to the budget documents, R53 billion is allocated to salaries and R7.7 billion to the medical aid scheme.  As at March the SAPS had a total of 192 516 employees.  Briefing the committee, National Treasury official Nompumelelo Radebe said: “From a National Treasury point of view, administration should not be more than 10% of budget.”  Daily News