DURBAN – Two dogs were reunited with their owners after Kloof and Highway SPCA inspectors nabbed a pair of youngsters who had allegedly stolen a female Jack Russel from a house in New Germany.  Lisa Morck of the Kloof of Highway SPCA, said trainee Inspector Eric Simamane and Inspector Petros Simamane responded immediately and the Pinetown police were alerted. “When questioned, the boys led police and SPCA Inspectors to a premises in Claremont, KwaDabeka . On the property the SPCA Inspectors found a sterilised adult male Pitbull and a five-month old female Pitbull puppy that had both been stolen from the New Germany area. The owners of the dogs were found and both the dogs have been happily re-united with their owners,” said Morck.  The find led inspectors and police to what is believed to be dog theft syndicate operating in the Pinetown area.  On the premises the SPCA Inspectors also found an underweight female crossbreed with five of her own puppies and four two-week old puppies from a different litter. “Sadly one of these puppies had died and was found lying motionless in the kennel. The mother dog and her five puppies belonged to the owner of the property and were signed over into the care of the SPCA. The dead puppy and the remaining three puppies were also removed by the SPCA. The owner of the premises claimed not to know the boys, but had seen them placing the four puppies with the crossbreed female. It is suspected that the four puppies from a different litter were also stolen however this cannot be confirmed,” Morck said. She said the two young boys were taken into police custody but were were cautioned and released without being charged.  In recent months several home owners have reported their animals going missing, fearing they had been stolen   The Kloof & Highway SPCA urges dog owners to be vigilant and help prevent their dogs from being ‘stolen’ by:  - Ensuring that your property is secure and that your dog is unable to escape or be lured outside your home. It is easier for your dog to be stolen if they are in the garden at night and during the day when you are not there , keeping your pets indoors at night, during storms, fireworks etc will also help. Ensure your gates and fencing/walling is high enough so that your pets cannot be lifted over by thieves. - Please sterilise your pets as sterilised animals are less likely to wander or to try and escape from their homes whilst females are in season. Sterilised females are unable to be bred with and are less likely to be stolen. Most vets are able to sterilise animals from three months of age. - Ensuring that your dog has identification tags AND most importantly a microchip. A collar with an identification tag is easily removed. - Report any missing animals immediately to your closest SPCA and open a case of theft at the nearest SAPS if you have witnessed or have witnesses to confirm dog theft.  Daily News