The centre has been without water since Friday. The Daily News arrived at 11am yesterday to be greeted by a notice on the gate advising visitors about the lack of water. And that meant that people were unable to write their scheduled driving learner’s tests, book their tests, or renew their licences. Disappointed people who spoke on condition of anonymity said they were greatly inconvenienced since they had taken time off from work to sort out their enquiries. They were also worried about the backlog that would further create overcrowding and delays when the office eventually reopened for business “I was here on Monday and I could not get help. I came back again today with the hope that things would have been sorted out,” one woman said. “This is a government office that provides an important service and it simply cannot shut down,” she said. An inside source said that the water supply had been disconnected because the centre had owed the municipality “a lot of money” for its unpaid water bill. No other properties near the centre were experiencing water supply problems, Daily News’s enquiries found. While eThekwini Municipality spokesperson Tozi Mthethwa said the city did not discuss client’s accounts with a third party, she said officials had gone to investigate and found that there was water at the centre. However, a security guard confirmed there had been no water at the centre since Friday and that it was only reconnected late on Tuesday. But no work could be carried out because the staff had been sent home earlier. Some people who had driving tests later in the day were lucky to do them because some inspectors were still at the facility, he said. Ward 64 councillor Gavin Hegter said it was brought to his attention earlier yesterday that the Rossburgh Testing Centre had been closed. Upon investigation, he found that management closed the facility because of the disconnection of the municipal water supply. “Although I fully support this action by the city in an effort to recover outstanding money, it is totally unacceptable that any government department should be in this situation. “This can only be attributed to poor management that is being witnessed time and again. “These instances of poor management are being seen throughout all spheres of government. “Residents of eThekwini have recently experienced some of the municipal libraries being closed for days due to the municipality not paying the rent,” he added. Daily News