KaMagwaza-Msibi last week held a press briefing to announce the disbanding of both the national and provincial structures, among others, for being responsible for the party’s failure to participate in last year’s local government elections. She had also accused them of failing to hold the party’s elective conference. She is now the only office bearer left in the leadership, but she had set up an ad hoc committee, which comprises unknown individuals, to help her run the party’s affairs. When asked to comment on the new development in the NFP, Madlala said: “You should begin the funeral arrangements”. “You should begin writing their obituary. It is the beginning of the decline of the party,” he said. Madlala said things took a turn for the worse for the party after kaMagwaza-Msibi suffered a stroke in November 2014, which kept her away from politics between then and last month. Madlala said problems in the NFP were to be expected of a party, the survival of which relied on one person. “We said a long time ago that political parties that depend on an individual, such as the IFP, do not have a survival strategy.” Madlala said kaMagwaza-Msibi made a mistake disbanding the structures, but added that this would depend on what the party’s constitution says about her position in the absence of the NEC. “Normally, if you disband the top leadership, you should also go,” said Madlala. Aggrieved NFP deputy president Alex Kekana and NFP Women’s Movement president Sindi Mashinini alleged kaMagwaza-Msibi was punishing the leadership for supporting other opposition parties’ call for President Jacob Zuma to step down. “We were told we could not say that Zuma was wrong, because he is the one supporting our president in the situation she is facing, and is the one who gave our president a position as deputy minister of science and technology,” said Mashinini. But that has been denied by the ad hoc committee’s chairman, Irvin Barnes, who was speaking on behalf of kaMagwaza-Msibi. Both Kekana and Mashinini had turned to the Pieter­maritzburg High Court to force the NFP leader  to reverse her decision. The case is expected to be heard on Friday. When kaMagwaza-Msibi was away, the party became a scene of infighting, which involved leaders taking each other to court. During a meeting in Durban on April 22, kaMagwaza-Msibi, who was still struggling to speak properly, stated that she was disbanding the structures because the NEC had - during her illness - allowed parallel structures. She gave 14 reasons for her decision. “It (NEC) permitted the KwaZulu-Natal PEC to expel 99 councillors - something that had never been heard of in the history of any party in the country. “The NEC grossly mismanaged party funds and the organisation itself, resulting in a mass exodus of members and rendering the party into financial crises. We have huge debts hanging over us,” she said. The party was preparing to contest the country’s biggest by-election in Nquthu Municipality, northern KZN, where it was hoping to increase its number of councillors. This was the only municipality where the party had participated in the local government elections last year, after individual councillors had paid registration fees from their own pockets, while the NEC had failed to pay to participate in all municipalities. The municipality was disbanded last year after it failed to appoint its senior leadership due to infighting among councillors of various political parties. Daily News