Residents were irked on Thursday when they heard that Cogta MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube had taken a resolution to form a task team that would look at assisting municipalities (eThekwini included) to collect billions of rands in unpaid municipal services by homeowners. It was reported at the end of the 2015/16 financial year that ratepayers owed the city about R2billion in unpaid rates and services. eThekwini’s billing system has been found wanting by ratepayers who claimed that it was not accurate, and that meters were not read, and the bills issued were “crazy”. A Glenwood resident who asked to remain anonymous, said last Tuesday she received a R64000 water bill via e-mail. “I called the customer care centre. However, I ended up spending 55 minutes with the calls getting cut off. I later studied the bill and realised that these people have not read my meter for 10 months. Cogta’s intervention could be disastrous if the department doesn’t start by looking at the municipal system first before implementing any plans it has to recover unpaid debt,” she said. eThekwini’s billing system must be audited because there were “genuine problems” with the bills issued to consumers,” she said. Arisha Govender-Ramjanek, chairwoman of the Merebank Ratepayers’ Association, said the first task of the task team should be to ensure that the municipal system was in working order. Worse “Most people in my area are complaining about the system. Pensioners have been racking up bills of up to R6000. The current system has had problems from the start so sort the billing crisis first,” Govender-Ramjanek said. On Tuesday, Dube-Ncube told the provincial legislature that a number of critical actions would be undertaken this year to ensure that municipalities remained financially viable. “We will also ensure that municipalities focus on collecting all revenue that is due to them. We are now looking at taking extraordinary measures to address this problem. “We are going to be reviewing the enforcement provisions in municipal credit control and debt collection policies and by-laws, including options of legally accessing creditor information,” she said. To achieve financial viability, her department would ensure that municipalities became more prudent and efficient with their expenditure patterns and ensure that there was value for money for the services paid for. “Every municipality’s expenditure will be analysed and assessed so it does not spend the bulk of its budget on non-core functions but on areas where there can be some return on investment,” she said. According to Dube-Ncube’s report, KZN municipalities are owed R13.1bn based on the audited financial year results for 2016. *  Household debts = R7.9bn (60.43%); *  Commercial debts (debt owed by businesses) = R3.5bn (26.8%); *  Government debts = R735m (5.6%); and *  Other debts (such as traffic fines) = R413m (3.15%). Cogta spokesman, Lennox Mabaso, said the task team’s first task would be to investigate “stern measures” to help with the collection. He told the Daily News that ratepayers should not be nervous because before implementing collection measures, the department would look at all factors around non-collection and non-payment. Daily News