Scott was addressing the provincial legislature in Pietermaritzburg on Wednesday. She said that despite the rand having regained its strength after Standard and Poor and Fitch’s decision to downgrade the country’s credit rating, there was more bad news to come. “The credit rating downgrade implies higher debt service costs, which will have to be financed through increased taxes or reduced public spending. “This is not good for economic growth in general, and therefore all efforts need to be directed towards ensuring that there is no further downgrade of South Africa’s credit rating,” she said. She was delivering her department’s budget of R607.8 million. Scott said she was pinning hopes on a recent visit by Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba to the US to engage investors on the country’s commitment to fiscal discipline. She said that as a result of financial challenges the country was facing, the provincial treasury would have its budget cut by R3.559m in 2017/18, R3.982m in 2018/19 and R6.323m in 2019/20. “With this background in mind, Provincial Treasury has renewed its resolve to do more with less,” she said. The department of finance had been hailed as the only one in the province that has been able to achieve a clear audit report, which Scott has credited to her hard-working and dedicated staff. Positive She said the positive audit reports started as far back as 2010 where the department had continued to incur less than one percent deviation from the provincial budget. “I am truly blessed to lead a dynamic team who give their best, in the face of many adversities. “They do not rest and they do not settle for anything less than the best. I believe in providing firm leadership to my team,” she said. However, DA MPL Francois Rodgers poured cold water on Scott’s claim of  success in running the province’s crucial department. He lashed out at her for failing to raise the bar in her performance, and rated her performance below that of her predecessor, Ina Cronje, who he said had found the provincial finances in disarray, but was able to turn things around “from one of the most dysfunctional treasuries into one of the most effective”. Rodgers said Scott had miscalculated by firing former deputy-director Fikile Hlatshwayo-Rouget in 2013. He said Hlatshwayo-Rouget should have been allowed to continue with her corruption-fighting campaign, which included informing the public protector about the irregular use of money in the provincial government. “Let it never be forgotten that Hlatshwayo-Rouget blew the whistle on corruption,” said Rodgers. Sipho Nkosi defended Scott from Rodgers’ attack saying Cronje’s success in running the department effectively was due to Scott’s support, which she had provided while chairperson of the finance portfolio committee. “I was part of the meeting (in 2009) when she (Scott) tabled a cost-cutting resolution, which we are famous for as KwaZulu-Natal,” said Nkosi. Daily News