According to a report released by Arrive Alive, the rule comes into effect from May 11 and means that children and other persons may still be transported in the goods compartment of the vehicle - but only if it is not done for money. The ruling has been welcomed by the KwaZulu-Natal Parents Association (KZNPA). Speaking to the Daily News, KZNPA chairperson Vee Gani said any measures or restrictions put in place to avoid the unnecessary deaths of pupils on roads were welcome. Gani said he thought the amendment was a start, but not enough to curb the pupil death toll. “We need to also address the issues of unlicensed drivers and unroadworthy vehicles that also contribute to pupil fatalities on our roads,” he said. Since the start of this school year, there have been several minibus taxi crashes with schoolchildren as passengers. On the first day of school this year, four pupils travelling in a minibus taxi to school were killed when it crashed into a bus in Ntuzuma. Last week, 23 pupils were injured when the taxi they were travelling in overturned in eManzimtoti. The next day, 11 children were injured when a minibus taxi overturned in Newlands East. On Tuesday last week, 16 children were injured in a minibus taxi crash in Reservoir Hills. Commenting on the number of taxi-related crashes involving pupils, Gani said this stemmed from drivers not being licensed in some instances and not having the necessary permits. “These taxis and vehicles that are used do not meet the required safety standards on our roads. “This compromises the safety of our pupils. And unfortunately most of our pupils are dependent on public transport to get to and from school. “While some pupils do use the trains, a large number of our pupils still use the taxis and bakkies,” said Gani. “Right now our children are dying on the roads and this can be avoided. The regulations around school transport should be stricter. This must be monitored by the Department of Transport. “Drivers who do not have the required licences and permits must be severely dealt with and their services withdrawn. Taxi operators not complying must have their vehicles impounded or confiscated, with stiff fines and penalties for the owners,” Gani added. Provincial Education Department spokesperson Sihle Mlotshwa said that while the department regretted accidents involving schoolchildren, “the issue of road safety is everyone’s issue”. “We all need to be responsible; that is the bottom line,” he said. The provincial transport department has taken a tough stance on those who transport pupils in bakkies. The department’s Mluleki Mntungwa said they had not waited for the amendment to come into effect and had been targeting bakkies transporting pupils for weeks. “Part of our Easter safety plan included impounding those vehicles and imposing harsh fines,” he said. Mntungwa added that the department ran a transport programme that currently catered for rural areas across the greater KZN district. Currently, the programme provides transport for 43700 beneficiaries across 320 schools in the province. It is unclear whether the department has plans to roll out the programme to other areas outside of rural KZN. Daily News