Brics is the acronym for an association of five major emerging economies: Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa. The dinner was held after the first day of the World Economic Forum on Africa 2017 being hosted in Durban at the Inkosi Albert Luthuli International Convention Centre. Survé said in the future, the world was going to be organised in regional blocks like North and South America becoming one economic entity. South East Asia would become an economic entity in its own right, he said. To be able to compete in the future, Europe - which has an ageing population - will have to work with Africa for its survival. “Europe is doomed without Africa,” he said. Survé said Africa was in an advantageous position because it had a population of young people who were determined and becoming increasingly educated. The talent in the continent needed to be nurtured. Taking full advantage of the fourth industrial revolution, digitisation, was important. It was not only Survé who saw the importance of African youth. Maite Nkoana-Mashabane, the Minister of  International Relations and Co-operation, also emphasised the role of youth in Africa. “Africa is young, Africa is rising, Africa is full of energy, Africa has survived all odds. Women also played a huge role in the country. An example of this is the large number of government ministers who are women,” she said. Nkoana-Mashabane said the vice premier of the People’s Republic of China was impressed by what was being done in South Africa for women empowerment by recognising contributions made by women. Rob Davies, the Minister of Trade and Industry, said: “Brics is a major strategic partner for us.” He said growing investment relationships was important and that China was the country’s biggest trading partner while India was the 6th biggest for South Africa. There was a huge need for a shift from being an exporter of raw goods and buying back the goods being refined. Brics countries were also playing a huge role in the world economy as they produced about 22.5% of global output. Development in Brics countries was very important and was supported by the establishment of the Development Bank which could be seen as a source for investment into infrastructure projects. Daily News