The group says they are in support of the rule, which came into effect last year, because it gave many a chance to have their music heard on local radio stations - something that would not have been possible previously. The rule was the brainchild of former SABC chief operations officer Hlaudi Motsoeneng. Earlier this month, reports surfaced that the SABC interim board was in talks to scrap the rule, which caused a major decline in radio advertising sales and listenership. Thokozani Zulu, one of the march organisers, said they wanted the interim board and Parliament to take local artists seriously as business people. “They are trying to take away our bread and butter. The march has nothing to do with any political party, nor are we showing support for Hlaudi. We are fighting for our artists to be heard. Some countries have a rule of 100% local content. By scrapping the rule, they are creating unemployment,” said Zulu. He added that if the rule was indeed scrapped, he was concerned for arts and drama students because they would have no platform to showcase their talent. Local singers Simthandile Mtolo, Verd Eaton and Natalie Rungan said they were against the scrapping of the rule. “The artist in me cares deeply that we have almost lost all sense of identity because of all the Western influences pushed through media channels accessible to the public. True South African cultures, traditions, attires and folklore are disappearing and our stories are dying without being told,” said Mtolo. Eaton said: “Personally, I think it was an excellent decision because it meant keeping 90% of the money that would have been paid for royalties in the country as opposed to sending it out. It was a brilliant concept, but poorly executed. If we improved on the quality of the music and gave listeners good, international-sounding music, it would have worked out.” Taking to her Facebook page, Rungan, a well-known Durban songstress, said she was thrilled that one of her songs was played on LotusFM, which was a direct result of the rule. Meanwhile Prinston, a local artist, said when the rule was implemented, up-and-coming artists did not feature on any playlists. “Newer artists did not get a chance to share in the rule, so to me it does not really make a difference,” he said. Ashwin Trikamjee, chairperson of the Save Our LotusFM group, welcomed the proposal to remove the rule. “We are very pleased and welcome the decision, should it go through. “The consequences speak for themselves with the SABC finding itself in a financial doldrum. LotusFM in particular lost more than 50% of their listeners and suffered in terms of a  drop in advertising,” he said. Kaizer Kganyago, SABC spokesperson, said in a statement that the interim board  decided that it would review the decision, considering regulations by the Independent Communications Authority of SA, the cost of implementing the decision and the governance around the directive made in this regard. “There have been several enquiries to the interim board on its response to the press conference that was held on April 19 by the former chief operations officer. In this regard the board has decided to communicate directly with 
Mr Motsoeneng,” he said. Khanyisile Kweyama, chairperson of the SABC’s interim board, said an official press statement would be released once a final decision had been made. Daily News  