The residents held a meeting planning action against unknown people who started clearing the bush on Saturday. “It’s obvious this is preparation for an informal settlement. They are literally behind my home,” said Marcia Moses. “We are experiencing house break-ins on a daily basis and my house was broken into just last week. If we allow an informal settlement here the situation will get out of control. “These people will need water, toilets and electricity. Where are they going to get these basic needs? There will be illegal connections and at whose cost?” she said. “The authorities need to do something before it is too late,” she insisted. Another resident, Asad Gaffar, said the municipality’s anti-land invasion unit and the SAPS were in the area on Saturday and yesterday. “One of the main concerns is that we are practically prisoners in our own houses. The invaders are mostly unemployed and they use whatever is at their disposal to survive. “The government doesn’t fast-track the housing programme and people are now desperate. “Our crime level is already too high and this could worsen the situation,” Gaffar said. He said that at yesterday’s meeting, residents were advised that the councillor needed to make an urgent court application to prevent further invasion. “Metro police also advised us to have an online petition and send it to the municipal manager,” he said. By Sunday afternoon, the area was quiet but the residents said they would draft a petition and hand it over to the municipality. Senior Superintendent Sibonelo Mchunu, Metro police spokesperson, said they had attended to various calls of land invasion around Durban. Sfiso Mngadi, Ward 24 councillor, said police arrived in the area and there were no violent incidents reported. “The reality is that once you allow invaders, they are likely to steal electricity and water. “The next thing they will start making demands and blockade the roads with burning tyres. “These people must be stopped immediately before things get out of control,” Mngadi said. Residents were also concerned about their property values should the invaders continue building in the area. Abahlali BaseMjondolo national general secretary Thapelo Mohapi said it was not an invasion if people occupied land for the purpose of sheltering their families. “It can only be invasion if the land was occupied for purposes of operating a business. “In this case, people need houses and there’s nowhere else they can go. It’s very embarrassing for the government to chase people away from vacant land without giving them an alternative for shelter,” Mohapi said. Daily News