Durban – South Africa’s marine economy is threatened by
overfishing and dumping, the World Economic Forum on Africa 2017 heard on
Thursday. Edna Molewa, South Africa’s Minister of Environmental
Affairs, said the continent’s blue economy will improve for the better in 10
years from now with the measures in place to protect it. She, however, raised a
concern about dumping in the ocean which affects marine life. Molewa was a panelist at the World Economic Forum on
Africa 2017 where experts from abroad were sharing ideas on how to better
handle activities that have detrimental impact on the continent’s ocean. For the country and Durban in particular, Molewa said
“huge opportunities” have been identified in the manufacturing and ocean
transport sector. “The fact that SAs economy was not constructed with the
focus on the shore line did not stop us from identifying that shortfall.
Loading raw material and receiving incoming goods are some of the opportunities
that exist for our country. The Port of Durban, Port Elizabeth and Richards Bay
are developed through our industrialisation programme. We are doing fish
breeding on our shore lines to ensure that we don’t run the risk of certain
species becoming extinct,” Molewa said on the sidelines of the session. She said drones, which are not expensive to operate, were
deployed to guard fishing activities. She said her office had received complaints from Durban
individuals and groups who want fishing licenses. “We are on guard of our marine life through legislation
and scientific monitoring. Those people must not think that they are ignored
but we are saying follow proper protocol and fishing licensing rules. The
licenses on demand are for small boat fishing and angling,” she said. South Africa has about 4 000 kilometres of coastline and
if protected, the country could have about 1 million jobs by 2032. Herman Betten, session facilitator, said the ocean was
not managed very well in the African continent. He said more than a billion
people relied on fishing for survival. “It takes six kilograms of salmon to make one kg of salmon.
Eight million tonnes of plastic are dumped into our ocean every year. About 400
dead zones in the ocean already exist. The more active we become in protecting
the ocean, the mercury that we find in fish will be extracted from the ocean
gradually,” Betten said. He said illegal, unreported and smuggled tuna fish was
another blow for ocean economy. Biao Juliette, director of the United Nations
Environmental Programme, said she did not think that Africans have enough
knowledge on oceans and that marine litter was not receiving enough attention. “Heavy metal going into the rivers and into the sea is
difficult to extract. The more toxic the waste, the more difficult it will be
to extract,” he said. The oceans are worth $24 trillion, and more than 90
percent of Africa’s imports and exports transported by sea. “From piracy to environmental degradation, how can new
tools, technologies and partnerships help to better harness and protect this
global common? These are the issues that need to be addressed,” he said. DAILY NEWS