This excludes the court hearing next Tuesday, and the inquiry by Parliament into the re-appointment of Molefe by Eskom. DA federal executive chairman James Selfe said yesterday the party would see Molefe in the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, because his re-appointment was illegal. In Parliament parties called for the dissolution of the Eskom board over the crisis, saying it had failed in its responsibilities. The cabinet said Zuma had set up an inter-ministerial committee to look at the Eskom crisis and how to resolve a matter of this nature in future. Justice Minister Michael Masutha will chair the IMC, which will also include Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba, Brown and Energy Minister Mmamoloko Kubayi. Acting government spokesperson Phumla Williams said the cabinet would not intervene in either the inquiry by Parliament, or the court action. “Cabinet is concerned about the recent developments at Eskom. Cabinet appreciates that the matter regarding the re-employment of Mr Brian Molefe as chief executive of Eskom is before the courts and in Parliament, and shall respect these processes,” said Williams. Opposition parties took on Brown during the budget vote and accused her of failing to rein in the Eskom board for allowing Molefe to return to Eskom. Natasha Mazzone, of the DA, said state-owned entities were not in a state of chaos, but in a state of capture. The whole Eskom fiasco has revealed the rot at the power utility, she said. The inquiry by Parliament would be able to investigate all the matters at Eskom and bring those responsible to book, she said. Dissolved She said several investigations at Eskom, by Dentons and PricewaterhouseCoopers, had shown the extent of the corruption at the power utility. Thembinkosi Rawula, of the EFF, said the Eskom board must be dissolved and the inquiry by Parliament would help identify those responsible for the problems at Eskom. He said Molefe resigned from Eskom, and there was no excuse to bring him back by now saying he had either retired or had been retrenched. Brown had accepted his resignation and the matter should have ended there, said Rawula. IFP chief whip Narend Singh said SOEs had become cash cows of certain families, and this has to come an end. He said Brown’s appearance before the portfolio committee on public enterprises on Molefe’s reappointment had left them with more questions than answers. He also said the inquiry of Parliament would dig into the rot at Eskom. Steve Swart, of the ACDP, said Parliament must follow the example of the inquiry into the SABC. This was the only way to get to the root of the problems at Eskom. He said the courts would decide on Molefe. Swart also said they welcomed the inquiry set up by Brown. The Special Investigating Unit can act quickly and the Asset Forfeiture Unit can also act by seizing the assets of those implicated, Swart said, adding that South Africa was not for sale.