DURBAN - A 33-year-old Port Shepstone man has been handed down two life sentences and 13 years imprisonment for rape and murder.  On Thursday, Scottburgh Regional Court sentenced Sibusiso Mga Shozi (33) to two life sentences and 13 years imprisonment for two counts of rape, murder and assault grievous bodily harm. Shozi was sentenced to ten years for rape, life imprisonment for murder, life imprisonment for rape and three years for assault grievous bodily harm. Police had arrested him in 2014 for the murder of man and the rape of his female companion while they were walking on a bridge on the South Coast. During the investigation of the murder and rape, police investigators linked him to the rape of another woman in Port Shepstone. The court heard that the first attack took place on December 17, 2013 when Shozi pounced on a 17-year-old girl who was walking near the Merlewood grounds in Port Shepstone. Shozi pointed a knife at her and dragged her to the bushes where he raped her. Five months later,  an 18-year-old woman and 27-year-old Ricardo Ngcobo were walking at Umzumayi Bridge in Woodgrange, Hibberdene when Shozi approached them and asked them for cigarettes. According to a police statement, when the woman gave him a cigarette, Shozi  stabbed him Ngcobo. Ngcobo managed to flee but succumbed to his wound a short while later. The court heard that Shozi raped the woman after stabbing Ngcobo. Police spokeswoman, Captain Nqobile Gwala said police were able to link the two cases. "Police made a breakthrough on 2 June 2014 when they arrested the accused at Mfazazane area, in Hibberdene. When police went to the accused’s house, the accused attacked the officers with a dagger and threw hot oil at them. The police then fired a warning shot, and the accused sustained a gunshot wound and was taken to hospital under police guard," she said. He appeared in court several times until he was found guilty and sentenced for his crimes. The KwaZulu-Natal Acting Police Commissioner, Major General Bheki Langa, welcomed the sentenced handed down. He thanked the investigative team for presenting a well prepared docket for prosecution.  “The sentence will serve as a warning to those who are thinking of committing such crime in our communities that police will apprehend them and will get a harsher sentence in court,” he said. Daily News