DURBAN - On Wednesday the world celebrated International Day Against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biophobia, which is the celebration of sexual and gender diversities. For better understanding, homophobia is prejudice against same sex relations, transphobia is prejudice against transsexual or transgender people and biophobia is prejudice against biological factors. According to gay rights activists, homophobia is the most common prejudice when it comes to sexuality. In countries such as Guyana, Barbados, Zambia, Uganda, Tanzania, Iran, Nigeria, Qatar, Sudan, Somalia, Afghanistan, homosexual behaviour is a punishable office. Homosexuals can be arrested or charged with homosexual behaviour can be arrested or sentenced to death. Men usually face the harsher sentence of death, while women are either arrested or flogged. Nonhlanhla Mkhize, advocacy officer at the Lesbian and Gay Community & Health Centre shed some light on homosexuality in South Africa. Mkhize said homosexuality in South Africa depends on context and it differs on social standing. Those who have good homes and secure lives, are likely to face less struggles when it comes to being homosexual. However, lower class individuals who are less privileged are more exposed to homophobia. “It is unfortunate,” Mkhize said. “It is important to have a day like this to observe how far we have come and where we are headed.” “In some instances, others believe that lesbians are virgins and they believe that virgins can cure HIV/AIDS if you sleep with them. They also believe that lesbians only want to be men. Others believe that homosexuals have special powers and then kill them to make powerful muthi.” Mkhize said homosexuals face similar challenges that heterosexuals face. However, with homosexuals, there is an added level of identity - how homosexuals are perceived and how they carry themselves. “In some cases, homosexuals struggle to get an education and many of them are unemployed because people believe that homosexuals are wealthy. In other cases, just like women, they have to work harder to prove themselves.” As an organisation, they do not tell homosexuals who seek guidance, when they should come out of the closet. It is not something they advise on. Openly homosexual Durban councillor, Martin Meyer shared his thoughts on homosexuality in South Africa. Meyer said being homosexual in South Africa depends on many factors, the main one being location. He feels that it is easier being homosexual in urban areas than rural areas. However, in South Africa, there are laws that protect homosexuals from homophobic prejudices. “Stigmas such as religion and HIV/AIDS plague homosexuality,” said Meyer. “It is mainly because people do not have the correct information with regards to homosexuality.” “Homosexuals face a lot of challenges, but the most hurtful, is acceptance by family. Some homosexuals are kicked out of home when they come out, while others face emotional, verbal and sometimes, physical abuse. You become afraid to be yourself and create a different persona.” “No one wants to be pushed away by those who are close to them.” Meyer also said that coming out of the closet differs from person to person. Others can come out as early as 12 years old while, he admitted it to himself at the age of 24.