State witness Glover Govender, 65, told the court that one of the accused, Dhanaseelan “Dhevan” Manickam had approached his son, Rogen, asking to borrow a firearm, and that his son had referred him to him. Manickam, Claude Reginald, Rajendran Chetty, Shana Mangroo, Sudesh Ghooruhoo, Veronica Rathilal and Jayshree Baijnath stand accused of killing Anandrai. Gregory Pillay, currently serving an 18-year prison sentence for shooting Anandrai, claimed he was hired by the accused who allegedly owed Anandrai money. Pillay shot Anandrai outside Manickam’s house in March 2014. On Wednesday, Govender testified that he lent Manickam his gun because the accused was a policeman whom he knew and trusted. He said Manickam came to his house to borrow his firearm and he agreed. Govender testified that the gun was returned on March 18. “I went inside my house and put the gun in the safe,” he said. Jammed Govender said he noticed nothing wrong until months later when he read about the shooting and that the gun used had jammed. He then also learnt that Manickam was one of the accused. When he examined his gun, he noticed a deep scratch at the back where bullets enter and concluded that the gun had jammed. He said the gun had only four bullets when Manickam returned it. “I concluded that my gun was used in the incident,” he said. Under cross examination, Govender admitted that Manickam had given him R200 and that he accepted it as a token of appreciation. Overwhelmed with shock, Govender said he told himself that he was not going to keep the gun. The thought of going to the police crossed his mind, but felt it would put his life at risk and also that it would look as if he was involved “with the hit squad”. Instead, he said he cut the firearm into pieces with a grinder and threw it into the water at Isipingo Beach at night. When senior State advocate Nadira Moosa asked him why he had done that, Govender replied: “I was not going to keep it in my house or hide it at any of my relatives’ houses. I didn’t even want to bury it in my yard.” Borrowing Manickam, through his lawyer, denied contacting Govender or borrowing the gun. Another State witness, Riaz Rahim, testified that he was the first person on the scene because he was driving past that night and saw a man standing outside a Mercedes ML and talking to the driver. “I approached with caution as I was not sure if the vehicle was reversing. I’m sure I heard four gun shots go off and saw the shooter run off,” he said. Rahim said he jumped out of his car and went to assist. “I tried to open the passenger door, but I couldn’t. I tried to break the front window with a brick but failed as the vehicle burst into flames,” he said. He said Rathilal was one of the people at the scene a few minutes later. “She was emotional and screamed. She tried to assist the deceased who was still trapped in the vehicle. She told me she was his lawyer and was meeting him at that house,” Rahim testified. Daily News