 Cape Town - The critical  issue of a breach of an electric fence in the gruesome Van Breda family axe murder case again took centre stage in the Western Cape High Court on Wednesday. The defence charged it was possible, despite security guards denying it. Proving such a possibility is crucial to the defence, which is that an unknown intruder was responsible for the murders, and not Henri van Breda. The electric fence meant to secure the multimillion rand estate in Stellenbosch where the triple murder took place, had become mangled in the past, said defence advocate Matthys Combrink. Combrink presented evidence that showed heavy rains had caused the fence to partially wash away two years prior to the murders. He also read a report which detailed how security alarms were tripped three times on the night before 
and on the morning of the murders. The evidence was presented during the fifth day of Van Breda’s trial for the murder 
of his family at the De Zalze Golf Estate in Stellenbosch in January 2015, when Van Breda’s mother, Teresa, 55, father Martin, 54, and brother Rudi, 22, were attacked 
and killed with an axe or 
“similarly sharp object”. Van Breda’s sister, Marli, 16 at the time of the attack, survived a physical assault, and now suffers from retrograde amnesia. She remembers nothing of the night. Van Breda, 21, has been charged with three counts of murder, one of attempted murder, and one of defeating the ends of justice, to which he has pleaded not guilty. He appeared calm and poised as he sat in the dock, listening and taking notes as proceedings unfolded. In a plea explanation, Van Breda said that an attacker wearing a balaclava broke into their house that night and carried out the crimes. Security guard Lorenzo Afrika was cross-examined, and said he was not aware of alarms being triggered prior to the incident. He had worked at the estate for three months when the crimes  happened. Afrika stuck to his guns following prior examination, that the perimeter fence was not penetrated on the night of the murders. “If a zone goes off, for example zone 21 and zone 22, I go to both and do a thorough check. All the fences are live,” Afrika said. About the mangled fence, Afrika said it was possible for the river to sometimes cause havoc, and cause the ground to erode. When that happened they used gravel to channel the water away, he said. Because the estate was in close proximity to wildlife, sometimes frogs or branches would make contact with the fence, and even then he would drive out and do a check. “I will physically get out of the car, examine, and make sure there are no obstructions, then another colleague will 
also check. We don’t just drive past. "Everything was in working order that night, there were no problems,” Afrika said. All three siblings were born in Pretoria, and in 2006, the family emigrated to Perth in Australia. In 2014, his parents moved back to South Africa as Martin van Breda had started a new company, Edugrow. Earlier this week, Sergeant Adrian Kleynhans, the first police officer to arrive at the murder scene, testified that he had seen no evidence of a burglary at the residence, and that valuables, including a laptop, were in full sight. Earlier in the day, Van Breda’s lawyer, Pieter Botha, had asked Kleynhans about the 24 burglaries that had been reported at the estate since 2002. The trial continues on Wednesday.  francesca.villette@inl.co.za  Cape Times