DURBAN – As the world celebrates International Nurses’ Day, KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Health, Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo, paid tribute to all practicing and retired nurses for their contribution in saving lives and improving health outcomes in the province. The theme this year, “Nursing: A voice to lead – Achieving the Sustainable Development Goals”, calls for renewed action towards the attainment of these goals. Dhlomo says the key to realising the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals are strong and resilient health systems. Dhlomo also described nurses as being important to realising the government’s journey to to re-engineer the primary health care system. The message from the MEC comes as the Department of Health in KZN prepares to hold its International Nurses Day community outreach programme at Addington Hospital on 26 May 2017. Dr Dhlomo said, “Nurses are a vital resource for health. They are the back bone of the health care system. They are the only resource available 24 hours for the patients’ needs. And they are well placed to understand the complex nature of health and wellness. Nurses must never abandon their focus and responsibility to be patients’ advocates in health care service delivery. So, today, as the world honours them for their dedication, commitment and enthusiasm, we want them to know that they are treasured and appreciated not just for one day, today, but every day.” “Nurses are particularly well-placed to help communities and are often the most innovative in reaching disadvantaged populations. They are educated to understand the complex nature of maintaining health and wellness, and the impact of psychosocial and socio-economic factors such as poverty, unemployment and ethnicity. Nurses are often the generalists in health care, professionals who can work with multiple levels of staff and people who provide a broad range of technical care and coordinate the work of other health care professionals to meet patient goals.” MEC Dhlomo added, “In this Province, the nurses are our strong mast in the quest to realize the government’s mandate of the attainment of a long and healthy life for all our citizens. The essential task of rendering an effective and efficient health care service in KwaZulu-Natal and elsewhere in the world, largely hinges on the calibre of nursing personnel that serve in our healthcare facilities.” In KwaZulu-Natal, nurses have almost single-handedly assisted to enrol more than 1 million patients on the Anti-Retroviral Therapy programme. Nurses played an important role in the Department’s efforts to accelerate its School Health Teams programme. In the 2016/17 financial year, the Department has deployed 207 School Health Teams, which are led by a Professional Nurse who works with an Enrolled Nurse and a Nursing Assistant. Their roles include screening learners for barriers to learning, for example, for visual impairments, hearing, psycho-social, and physical barriers, just to name a few. Dhlomo recently announced that, together with a select group of retired nurses, the Department is setting up a steering committee will help bring back respectability to the nursing profession. “Working together with these retired veterans, we have identified three areas in which we are found to be wanting and these being: Nursing Practice; Nursing Education as well as Ethos and Professionalism. Indeed, I believe that the revival and revisit of all the highlighted areas that used to make this profession distinct and unique will benefit us all.” MEC Dhlomo says he is confident that the work of the Steering Committee will bring back a culture where the time-honoured Nurses’ Pledge will be a lived reality for all nurses and healthcare users in the province. It reads as follows: ‘I solemnly pledge myself to the service of humanity and will endeavour to practise my profession with conscience and with dignity. I will maintain, by all the means in my power, the honour and noble tradition of my profession. The total health of my patients will be my first consideration.’ Dr Dhlomo also encouraged nurses to pursue opportunities to develop themselves further by studying. “Never cease to explore and expand your horizons as a nurse. You can enter various nursing disciplines, such as Paediatric, Psychiatry, Midwifery; Orthopaedics; Ophthalmology, or become a nursing tutor. The sky's the limit.”  “I therefore urge our nurses to take pride in wearing their badges and stay true to their prayer. We wish you an all year round Happy Nurses’ Day.” Daily News