DURBAN – Residents of Glenashley, north of Durban, have been given a new attraction in their neighbourhood, a new-look Spar that cost R87 million to upgrade. The owners of Eastmans Superspar, Gavin East and Garth Slater, launched an upgraded Superspar  on Tuesday, saying the R87m investment gave the store extra dazzle. It has been 20 years since Eastmans opened its doors for the first time, and they have a lot to show for it. After two years of construction, Eastmans extended their trading area from 1 200m² to 2 000m². For more space, East and Slater bought three surrounding properties and demolished them. Parking spaces tripled in number as they went from 90 parking spaces to 280. There are three levels of parking available – rooftop, TOPS at SPAR and on the first floor. “Parking is key in the business. So it forced us into construction,” said Slater. Speaking about the upgrades, Slater said: “We needed it desperately, and it has uplifted the area”.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. For coffee drinkers and early risers, Eastmans now has a coffee shop, the Bean Tree, which can also be used for business meetings, and it also offers people’s favourite – wi-fi. The Bean Tree also has a nook for bookworms or those just seeking some quiet time. There is more produce, space and more checkout points, and a bigger grocery offering. Even the aisles have increased in width, which makes for a more pleasant shopping experience. Alcohol drinkers have a wider selection of drinks now that TOPS at Spar is 400m² – one of the biggest in Durban. Drinks are already chilled because of the extra-large walk-in cooler. The rooftop houses two restaurants: a pizza house and a steakhouse. It also has room for five line shops, one of which Slater hopes will be a Spar pharmacy. Eastmans has promotions running for 12 days. They are offering a Phinda Safari holiday for two, valued at R22 000 for customers who spend R500 or more. Daily News