That is when he will compete in another Powasol EnduroX Series event at the Royal Show in Pietermaritzburg on June 2 and 3. And his supporters believe he will be thrilling fans again just like he did during the recent South Coast Bike Fest in Margate. Zulu, 32, who hails from Gamalakhe township on the KwaZulu-Natal South Coast, was the only black rider in the Powasol EnduroX event, which was one of the crowd-drawing highlights of the four-day festival. Zulu, who has been riding for five years, had the time of his life as he tackled the 22obstacles on the extreme track on his sponsored 2017 KTM 250 XC-W bike, and the crowd, which included plenty of local support, “went crazy” when they saw him in action, spectator Olivia Symcox reported. Zulu was inspired to take up the “hard, but enjoyable” extreme sport after seeing the local off-road club regularly riding through Gamalakhe, he said. Klint Mills, the managing director of Powasol SA, recalled that Zulu had saved up hard to buy his first bike, and although it was “seriously messed up”, it was still ridable. Zulu had then put his heart and soul into competing in the first EnduroX event at the Royal Show in Pietermaritzburg, said Mills. “It proved a turning point for Piwe. His bike was literally falling apart and the other riders helped him with a new chain, bolts to fix his bash plate, a new tyre and new grips because his were torn and unsafe. “His bike was spluttering and could hardly run, but he kept going. He was the first on the start line and never quit.” From that moment, Mills decided that he had to help Zulu and arranged for his bike to be repaired. But it turned out to be beyond repair. “I couldn’t phone him to tell him it would have broken his heart to hear the news,” Mills said. Then, fellow rider and businessman Matt Barnes bought Zulu’s bike from him, but instead of selling it for his own profit, he sold it off piece by piece and used the proceeds 
to buy Zulu a new pair of racing boots at below cost from Ronnie Dreyer of Rocket Racing. Mills then knew he had to organise a bike for Zulu so he could race in his home town during the South Coast Bike Fest, and the EnduroX sponsors, KTM Durban, readily obliged. “Piwe made me so proud when he competed in Margate. He is by far the best black South African Enduro rider. He is ours and he is proudly South African.” Zulu, who also plays rugby for the South Coast Warriors, is to feature in an SABC3 Expresso breakfast show segment soon. Daily News