Enos Msani, 62, suffered a double blow when he lost his son Nhlanhla, 16, and grandson Siyanda Msani, 12, in a car accident that claimed the lives of two other boys who are still to be identified. “They stole the car and drove it out of my yard without my permission. They knew what they were doing was wrong and now the worst thing has happened. “I wish they were still here for me to shout at them, 
punish them or something. I am hurt that I will never see them again.” Msani said he had driven out in his other vehicle, a bakkie, when he received a call at about 1pm on Saturday informing him that Nhlanhla and Siyanda had been involved in an accident in his car. “I rushed to the scene and while driving there I kept asking myself how the boys could do this. “I have had the car for four years and I had never given it to them to drive. My son, Nhlanhla, would drive the car inside the yard after washing it, but never outside. “I kept telling myself that it was not true,” he said. At the scene, Msani said he learned that there had been four boys in the car. It was not yet clear who had been driving the vehicle as all the occupants were thrown out during the accident. “I found three of the boys were already dead and covered. I had to open each one to identify my son and grandson. The fourth person was still alive and had been rushed to hospital,” said Msane. Msani said he opened the first covered body and found that it was not somebody he knew. He opened the next and saw it was not his son or grandson, before finding out that the third one was his grandson, Siyanda. Nhlanhla had been taken to hospital, but later died of his injuries. Nhlanhla was a Grade 11 pupil from Greytown Secondary and Siyanda was in Grade 7 at Eshane Primary School. “I am angry that they had to die this way. I do not know exactly who drove the car; whether it was my son or if it was one of his friends who drove my car and caused the accident.” Msani said the family was shattered and angry at the same time. “These children had bright futures ahead. Nhlanhla was going to be in matric next year and my grandson, Siyanda, was going to start high school. “We had already made arrangements for his school next year, and now they are gone. “It’s terrible to think that they were here this minute and the next thing they are gone, through one mistake,” he said. Meanwhile, Maskandi musician Phuzekhemisi is mourning the death of his son, Magugu Mnyandu, who died in a car accident yesterday morning. The accident happened on the N2 near eManzimtoti, 
when Mnyandu’s vehicle overturned. Daily News