According to a comparison with the list of food prices published in the South African Food Cost Review in 2007 by the National Agricultural Marketing Council and the Department of Agriculture, the cost of specific food items has doubled or tripled. Ina Wilken, the South African National Consumer Union chairwoman, said the South African economy over the past 10 years had caused an increase in food prices. “In a nutshell we can say the economy slowed down, people lost their jobs and too many people cannot afford the most basic food because of continuing fuel-price hikes. Every time the fuel price goes up, all commodities increase, but nothing happens when the fuel price drops,” she said. Wilken felt it was the man in the street who bore the brunt of SA being downgraded to junk status and investors not being keen to invest in the country. “Coupled with this, we also have had a drought and the Cape is still experiencing one of its most dreadful droughts in years. With fraud and scandals, big state entities like Eskom and SAA are bringing the country to its knees,” said Wilken. She believed consumers were facing very tough times and no longer knew where to cut their expenditure to survive. “The time has come for the government to go back to the drawing board and see to it that consumers are treated fairly and with respect,” said Wilken.  However, economists and a retailer have predicted a drop in food prices this Christmas. David North, Pick *  Pay’s Group Executive: Strategy and Corporate Affairs, said: “We have exciting plans in the run-up to the festive season, and customers can look forward to great deals and discounts at Pick *  Pay.” The retailer said it was keeping their price increases to 3.6% 
between March and August, well below the 6.9% published by government for food prices across the economy. “The high levels of food inflation the country experienced last year have eased. Many customers are struggling to balance their budgets and we work very hard to keep any price increases to a minimum,” North said. Economists appear to be on the same wavelength. Paul Makube, the agricultural economist at FNB, said 80% of fertiliser was imported. Fertiliser, pesticides and herbicides are all derivatives of crude oil and their prices and availability are largely influenced by crude oil prices, fuel price increases and the cost of distribution of agricultural products. “It puts consumer welfare under pressure, particularly in rural communities where competition is limited and they have to source products from far-away urban areas, despite primary production taking place in rural areas,” said the economist. Makube said the drought played a role in food prices by raising the cost of living across the board, “with rural consumers being hit the 
hardest”. Dawie Roodt, chief economist at the Efficient Group, said the reason why food inflation affected South Africans so much was because most South Africans were poor, especially those living in rural areas. “A rise in food prices affects the poor far more than wealthier people. The increase in food prices, especially in the last couple of years with the economy going through a recession and with unemployment going up, was quite severe,” Roodt said. Both Makube and Roodt said price hikes in the future looked better for consumers in comparison with the past 10 years. “We expect them to be moderate, given the technological advancements that have ensured higher crop yields,” said Makube. “The increased variability of weather patterns because of climate change will, however, continue to limit further benefits of higher production.” Roodt said: “The drought only plays a shortened role on food prices. You will see that food prices will spike in the one year because of the drought- and we’re experiencing it now - and then next year after good rains, food prices will fall sharply. So price changes are volatile in the short term, because of drought, and in the medium- to longer term the drought smooths it out.” Roodt said food prices were also likely to fall as time passed because agricultural practices were becoming increasingly productive. “In addition, I also think people in South Africa will get richer, and poverty will drop - and that of course is another reason why things will probably get better for most South Africans,” said Roodt. Daily News