“The economic contribution to the local economy cannot be quantified at this stage; however the Durban Chamber believes that sporting events such as the Currie Cup final are key drivers in attracting tourism into the city, be it local or international. “As a result, this contributes positively to our local economy,” said Dumile Cele, the chief executive of the Durban Chamber of Commerce and Industry. She said the final could also help to create jobs in various sectors of the economy. “The Durban Chamber encourages businesses, especially the hospitality industry such as restaurants and hotels, to prepare ahead of this weekend as this is an opportunity for many local businesses, more especially small businesses, to promote their products and services to a wider target market,” Cele said. Charles Preece, of the Federated Hospitality Association of Southern Africa, said: “Hotels are going to be very busy.” He said he believed this was also the last major sporting event in Durban before the December rush. A Sharks win was important as it added to the festivities, Preece said. Figures While no definitive figures could be given until after the match, millions of rand is expected to pour into the local economy as rugby fans fill restaurants, malls and places of entertainment this weekend. Novashni Chetty, the Sharks’ spokesperson, said although they had not tallied the figures yet, there was a definite surge in sales of memorabilia that ranged from T-shirts and replica jerseys to flags. She said parents, schools and companies were some of the big buyers. This forms part of The Sharks’ efforts to paint the city black and white today and tomorrow. She also encouraged people to wear black and white at the game. Tarboo Sewpersad, metro police spokesperson, said they would deploy as many as 80 extra police officers on the roads. There would also be a strong SAPS presence, he added. He said parts of uMgeni, Smiso Nkwanyana (Goble), Suncoast Boulevard and Isaiah Ntshangase (Walter Gilbert) roads would be closed tomorow. There were going to be numerous roadblocks around the stadium. He said last week, they arrested about 160 people for drinking and driving and they wanted to double that figure this weekend. Sewpersad found it “worrying and shocking” that there were drunk taxi drivers transporting people and said he hoped this would not happen this weekend. It would not only be on the streets that the metro police would keep an eye on things; they would also watch from closed-circuit television cameras deployed in the area. Based on history, Sewpersad said: “Durban has the best track record for hosting major and parallel events.” On the weather front, Aslam Sardiwalla, a weather forecaster at the South African Weather Service, said it would be cloudy tomorrow with a 30% chance of light rain in the morning. It would be partly cloudy towards the afternoon and evening. He forecast a low temperature of 13ºC and a high of 18ºC. There would be light winds during the day of about 10-15km/* . Daily News  