This was according to Mbulelo Tshangana, director-general at the Department of Human Settlements, who was speaking at the Human Settlements Developments and Technological Innovations Conference in Durban on Thursday. Tshangana said people who rented in low-cost social housing schemes paid up to R1 500, while currently students paid as much as R4000. He added that students who could not afford this would often live in back rooms or shacks, and had to take trains and other means of transport to get to university. “Tuition money was something that could easily be taken care of. The cost of accommodation was one of the main complaints during the #FEESMUSTFALL protests,” he said. The protests, which at their core fought for free education, began in 2015 after a high increase in tuition fees at the University of Witwatersrand. They soon spread to other institutions around the country. Tshangana said free housing was something that was not sustainable in the long run. He said the average cost of building an RDP house was about R170000. “The fiscus is getting smaller,” Tshangana said. This led the department to engage with the Public Investment Corporation and international funders. Getting funds from international funders was tricky because there were legal barriers to be passed first. The department was in the process of dealing with these challenges. Tshangana said it was important to talk to universities to find ways of solving some of the challenges the department was facing, because tertiary institutions could share some of their expertise. Tough This sentiment was supported by Human Settlements MEC Ravi Pillay. “The government has to make tough choices. The fiscus is not infinite,” he said. He said there was currently a backlog of 650000 housing units in the province, and eThekwini Municipality had the biggest backlog of about 400000 units. The MEC said this was not going to get any easier because the population of Durban was expected to grow by another million people by 2030. Pillay said there needed to be dialogue between the department and organisations such as Abahlali baseMjondolo which represent those who live in informal dwellings. “Informal settlements are going to be with us for a long time to come,” he said. It was important for there to be discussions for a better understanding of the situation about people in informal housing. He referred to the protest in Cato Manor yesterday by informal settlement residents. “We are seeing guerrilla warfare. People would wake up in the morning and see debris all over the road,” he said. Citing research by the University of KwaZulu-Natal that was yet to be released, Pillay said it was found that 20% of people living in shacks rented them, and 40% of shack dwellers rented the site that their homes were built on. Housing mega projects was another aspect that needed a rethink. Bongekile Mvuyana, of the Mangosuthu University of Technology, presented research on how such projects impacted on the beneficiaries. He said projects like Cornubia presented problems. “Many people who live in Cornubia are from Isipingo and the Uganda informal settlement. The problem with the move was that it was from the south of Durban to the north of the city,” she said. “People who moved from Isipingo and the Uganda settlement often had jobs close to where they lived. With the move to Cornubia, this meant that some people had to travel about 40km to their workplace. Other people opted to go back to live in the informal settlements.”