“The party is disturbed by reports, which it hopes are untrue, that there was a direct instruction from the ANC and police ministry directing police not to release the SACP leader,” SACP provincial secretary Themba Mthembu said. The man, who is also a senior ANC official, was arrested in uMzimkhulu on Saturday for the  possession of an unlicensed firearm. Mthembu said the official had insisted he simply wasn’t carrying his gun licence at the time. “We do not condone that he was not carrying his licence but we are deeply disturbed that even after attempting to produce it he is still being held in a desperate attempt to implicate the party in the ongoing killings in the area,” Mthembu said. “The fact that a directive came from the police ministry not to release him despite him supplying the licence details is baffling and smacks of an act of victimisation,” Mthembu said. He alleged that police were using a method of arresting suspects to deflect attention from real criminals, something he called a “spectacular failure of policing which is characterised by blunders acting on instructions of the pompous police minister (Fikile Mbalula)”. “The same modus operandi was used in many areas where there had been politically motivated killings in KZN where police deliberately arrest wrong people to protect real killers,” he said. Twenty-four councillors have been killed in KwaZulu-Natal since 2009 and the SACP said that despite over 60 people having been arrested in connection with the murders, none has been successfully prosecuted. Vuyo Mhaga, national police ministry spokesperson, denied the allegations, saying at no point did the minister make such a call. “It is absurd that such allegations were made. “Minister Mbalula does not make arrests or instruct police who to arrest or not to arrest.” The SACP called on members of the SAPS not to allow themselves to be used in party political agendas. But Major-General Bheki Langa, acting provincial commissioner, said the suspect and his wife had not been able to produce a valid permit for the firearm and ammunition. “Given the number of high- profile deaths in that area one should expect that police officials will act firmly if people are roaming around carrying firearms and ammunition without valid permits. “The matter needs to be investigated further and the suspect will be afforded an opportunity to state his case when he appears in court,” Langa. The ANC in KwaZulu-Natal rubbished the allegations. “The ANC does not instruct state organs; you cannot attribute police work to the ANC,” spokesperson Mdumiseni Ntuli said. The suspect is expected to appear in the uMzimkhulu Magistrate’s Court on Monday. Daily News