This, according to Tozi Mthethwa, the city’s head of communications, included posting warnings via their social media pages. Last week, at least 14 people were killed when a massive storm hit the city. On Thursday, the body of a 1-year old girl was recovered from a riverbed in uMlazi. She had been missing for more than a week. According to Mthethwa, on the day of the storm, the same statement on the municipality’s social media platforms was sent to all newspapers, radio and television stations. “Staff members also received a warning so they could alert loved ones immediately,” she said. Dr Michael Sutcliffe, former city manager, said he believed the municipality handled the communications about the storm as best as it could. Mthethwa said the city’s emergency service officials treated every disaster according to its merits. “Every disaster is different and requires a different plan of action. On the day of the storm, the warning clearly stated that all residents were to stay indoors. It is unfortunate that some residents failed to heed this and this led to panic on our roads,” she said. One of the main issues experienced during the heavy rains was clocked sewage- and stormwater drains. Mthethwa said this was because of residents dumping items such as fat, wet wipes, newspapers, cement and sanitary towels which then clogged the drains. “The municipality maintains more than 7500km of sewers, 280 sewage pump stations and 27 wastewater treatment facilities. Pollution has negatively contributed to the functions of the stormwater network resulting in the flooding of roads. “The public’s blatant disregard for the environment and littering appears to be the cause of most of the problems that lead to the malfunctioning of sewers. “The city has various interventions to deal with this issue. The municipality has put together a proactive maintenance plan to ensure that the drains are never compromised again,” she said. Mthethwa said the total estimated cost of the damage caused by the storm amounted to almost R300 million. Vincent Ngubane, head of the city’s disaster management unit, said that 2 934 households and infrastructure were damaged in the storm and they were working on relief efforts and repairs. He said there were 1 081 calls about blocked inlets, landslides, damaged roads, potholes and missing manhole covers. Fawzia Peer, deputy mayor and chairperson of the security and emergency services committee, said the city was ready to respond during the storm. “Every disaster that comes about, whether it is fire or a storm, you learn more from the assessments done of the affected areas. The department gets more prepared. Climate warnings have to go out to the public on time,” she said. According to Sutcliffe, there is no such thing as a plan. “An emergency is just that, an emergency. With an emergency, you just have to make sure that you get information out to the public as soon as you know. “There have to be measures in place to communicate those warnings. Two things to take away from this is to improve on the ways of communication, and ensuring that all units have a plan and systems in place to share information as quickly as possible.” Daily News