It has been three days since the family, who does not want to be named, were told that the man they cremated and whose ashes they scattered was not their father. They described the experience as a bad dream they could not wake up from. The man’s son said he had been sick ever since learning the truth and was battling to understand how Mariannhill Funeral Services mixed up two bodies. “My father died on Friday after suffering a heart attack. He had been ill for the last four months and it was like our family went to hell and back. My father was not a sick person so when he did take ill in June, it was tough for us.” The family had their father’s funeral on Saturday. What they thought was their father’s body was cremated at the Mobeni Heights Crematorium. The son’s wife said on Sunday morning they were to scatter the ashes, but her husband was very ill. “I ended up giving him medication. He was not well at all and we were meant to go with two other relatives to scatter the ashes. My husband suddenly taking ill was strange. His niece and nephew ended up taking the ashes to scatter. My niece said it was very odd because while they were on their way to the area where they were to scatter the ashes, she fell asleep in the car. It was like there were all these signs that something was wrong,” she said. Late in the day, the woman said her nephew called them. “He said someone had come to their house to tell them there had been a mix-up. We were shocked. We are in the funeral industry as suppliers and we cannot understand how this happened,” she said. The man said the family that had received his father’s body were Christian and only found out about the mix-up at the funeral when they opened the casket. “I cannot even imagine what they are going through. It must be absolutely horrible for them to deal with. They have no body and no closure.” His wife said they were given the correct body and had to quickly arrange for a cremation, this time without all the Hindu rites being performed. The family said during their funeral service, they saw the body and thought it was their father as the two dead men looked similar. “We did not dress my father’s body. We gave it to the funeral parlour and they dressed him. Only later did a few relatives mention that they did not think the person in the casket was their family member, but they did not think anything of it,” he said. Initially, when the family contacted Mariannhill Funeral Services, they received no sympathy. However, the family and funeral parlour are understood to have later had a meeting. Despite many attempts, the Daily News was unable to get comment from the funeral parlour. In Johannesburg a family are demanding that their relative’s remains be exhumed after the woman was buried by the wrong family. It is alleged that an undertaker in Orkney gave Thandiwe Mkwakwe’s body to the wrong family. She died over a month ago and was due to be buried in September. When her family went to fetch the body, they were told that there had been a mix-up. It has been more than a month and the family are still waiting for Mkwakwe’s body to be exhumed. The owner of the funeral parlour said another family buried Mkwakwe’s body thinking it was their disfigured relative, who died in a car crash. Daily News