Durban - Ethekwini Metro's human settlement will require just over R250 million to provide relief to families whose homes were affected by the recent two-day storm that hit the city. During a special Exco sitting at the City Hall on Monday, Vincent Ngubane, the city's head of disaster management unit showed how various parts of Durban had been hit hard by the storm leaving behind a trail of damages, injuries and death. "Shopping malls, electric installations, water and sanitation installation, CCTV fibre route roads and bridges were affected by this weather. In total 52 wards and 2934 households were affected by the weather and the police are yet to provide the exact number of deaths," Ngubane said. He said Parks and Recreation have attended 230 trees that had fallen over with three staff members working on a 24-hour standby roster.
The city experienced 724 blocked stormwater inlets while 135 potholes were created in various parts of eThekwini, he said. "The bulk of this work is routine maintenance work and the cost would be recovered by the operating budget. Most of the work in clearing the damage is expected to be completed in two weeks. Councillors are being consulted on the nature and extent of the repairs that are necessary for these structures," Ngubane said. READ: #DurbanStorm - The grim aftermath An amount of about  R2.3 million would be required to reinstate the water infrastructure to 3000 households whose supply and sanitation was affected while R2,6 million would be required to fix perimeter fencing and faulty electric circuits. Ngubane further said that R194 700 000 in subsidies will be provided by the Human Settlement at R110 000 per unit.
"Including assistance of R13 376 000 to construct a semi-temporal structure of prefabs for informal settlement, and fixing damaged roofs to RDP houses, a total of R250 million is required," he said. Zwakele Mncwango, DA leader questioned the speed at which response was given to the storm. "Did you get a warning from the SA Weather Service and was the warning effectively sent to the communities? My worry is that a city of our size with a budget of R42 billion we should be capable of communicating effectively with the people during a disaster. I believe that our infrastructure has failed us," Mncwango said. NOW READ: Why I walked from Durban to uMlazi during #DurbanStorm Ngubane said the SA Weather Service provides weather warnings and that before the storm, a warning came in predicting storm from the South Coast. He said at the moment there was no information system to warn all the residents on impending disaster.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Mdu Nkosi, IFP Exco member concurred that the drainage system had failed the city, but encouraged members to focus on providing relief to all the affected. Sipho Nzuza, City Manager said there was a need to shorten the process of attending to all the affected. "The situation we experienced in Isipingo transit camp was very dire so we can't sit while seeing people in that situation," he said.
Nzuza will handle the financing issue with Treasury to ensure that all processes are followed and that time is not wasted in providing assistance to the affected. Mayor Zandile Gumede said councillors will lead mop-up operations in the affected areas. Daily News