Bobat’s body was found hanging in a park in Woodview, Phoenix, on March 30 last year. Sayed Bobat, was convinced that his son had not committed suicide and conducted his own investigation which led to the police changing the inquest docket to that of murder. Subsequently, three men Shalen Naidu, 20; John-
Jordache Naidoo, 24; and Brenton Moodley, 27; were arrested for Zahir Bobat’s murder. Krishnavelli Naidu, who was married to Shalen Naidu’s father’s brother, told the court that she had a fractious relationship with Naidu, who often swore at her. Early in the morning, on the day Bobat was found, Krishnavelli had taken her dog outside to relieve itself when she saw a drunk Naidu who swore at her, she said. “When I swore back at him, he walked away to his house and closed the door. I also went inside my house,” she said. Krishnavelli told the court that she received a phone call from a neighbour informing her that Bobat was dead, but the caller did not say how he had died. She said she looked after Bobat’s child and knew him very well. Krishnavelli later found out from another neighbour that Bobat was found hanging from a tree at the park. “At that time Shalen was looking at us through a bedroom window, upstairs in his house. He rushed down and asked, ‘had Zahir hanged himself’,” said Krishnavelli. “I said: ‘I don’t know’.” She said Naidu then walked to the park where the body was found and she followed other neighbours to the scene. Krishnavelli said she noticed that his clothes were full of mud and while she did not make much of it, she worried about it later when Naidu was arrested. Krishnavelli said that Naidu’s condition troubled her and she approached Bobat’s father four days later and told him about it. “He introduced me to a police officer to explain what was bothering me, and I made a statement,” she said. Krishnavelli said the last time she spoke to Naidu was during their confrontation on the morning that he swore at her. “We are not on speaking terms, and because I had made a statement with the police there has been conflict in the family. My husband and I have separated because of this case,” Krishnavelli said. Under cross-examination, Naidu’s lawyer, Patrick Mkhumbuzi, accused Krishnavelli of falsely accusing Naidu because they did not get along. “I am suggesting to you that you’re building a case against him because of your relationship with him. The reason why you separated from your husband was because of your infidelity,” said Mkhumbuzi. Krishnavelli said the case had nothing to do with her marriage and the relationship she had with his nephew, but had everything to do with Bobat’s death. The trial continues. Daily News