The SACP’s KwaZulu-Natal secretary, Themba Mthembu, said at a press conference on Monday the Communist Party was not in an alliance with an individual, but with the ANC. This follows the party’s political bureau meeting, held at its headquarters in Johannesburg, to decide on the fate of their relationship following last week’s axing of Blade Nzimande as higher education minister. “The SACP took a decision to be in an alliance with the ANC 88 years, ago and we will not leave the alliance,” Mthembu said. “As long as South Africa is under capitalists and the enemy (capitalism) is strong, the SACP and the ANC will always need each other, for the good of the people.” Mthembu said communist parties that chose to “do it alone” perished, and the decision to stick with the ANC was an act aimed at looking out for the interests of the people. He said the SACP, which was at the forefront of bringing President Jacob Zuma to power, had been hurt by the recent developments. He also decried the state of the alliance, branding the current struggles a “pure vulgarisation of Oliver Tambo’s legacy”. “During the year of OR Tambo, we are tearing each other apart. We are in a state of decay, he must be turning in his grave,” Mthembu said. He said the party was still disappointed by the axing of Nzimande, as they believed he was fired because of a fallout in his personal relationship with Zuma. “We respect that it’s the president’s prerogative. The fallout was generated by factions in the ANC and comrade Blade’s sharp attack on the Guptas and state capture,” Mthembu said. He said his claim was demonstrated by the “withholding of the Fees Must Fall report” on the feasibility of free higher education from Nzimande while he was minister. Zuma is yet to release the report. “We have always suspected that the students uprising during the Fees Must Fall protest was used as a weapon to fight the authority of comrade Blade. “We know those who were used, but we won’t mention them,” said Mthembu. Durban