This is according to her spokesperson Mthunzi Gumede who was commenting after a DA delegation’s visit to three transit camps in the municipality. On Monday DA national spokesperson on human settlements Solly Malatsi and his deputy, Mbulelo Bara, DA KZN leader Zwakele Mncwango, DA provincial leader Tim Brauteseth, the provincial spokesperson on Human Settlements George Mari and councillors visited the Cato Crest, Waterloo and Tongaat transit sites to conduct an oversight visit. The delegation spoke to residents who have been living in the camps for over a decade, despite being told they would only be there for three months. When Xoliswa Ndevu, and her family packed up their belongings and moved into the Cato Crest transit camp, they believed it was just for three months, understanding they would soon move into a new house. Eleven years later, the tired-looking grandmother has lost hope of ever unlocking the door to her new home. “We moved here from our homes a short distance away. This is not right. Whenever we ask questions, there are no answers. It is one empty promise after the next. “They have already destroyed the shacks where we used to live and there are now other people living there. It is just hopeless,” she said. Ndevu lives in a one-bedroom unit with her daughter and four grandchildren. Another resident told the delegation that they had been experiencing problems with people at the transit camp allowing their relatives from other areas to move in with them. “Soon you find that there is more than one family in a house and they end up building shacks in between,” the man said. Grace Nyelime has been living at the camp since 2011. She lives in one of the units with her 22-year-old daughter. They lived at another informal settlement nearby and were moved to the transit camp. “They came and told us it was just for three months. We have settled here. It does not look like we are moving anywhere,” she said. Malatsi said the conditions they had seen during the visit were heartbreaking. “It is disgusting to think that there are people living here like this. This is their reality for more than 10 years now. You can also get a sense of fear from them. They have lost hope in the municipality which shows the extent to which the municipality has failed them. “I think their only hope is for help outside of the municipality. We 
will report back what we have seen here and drive the issue from a higher level. This is unacceptable,” he said. Malatsi said that the land which the camp was built on was not acceptable for housing. “Houses and infrastructure for toilets cannot be built on this land. For our part, we will elevate this matter. We will bring this visit to the attention of the National Portfolio Committee and try to bring members here to see for themselves,” he said. During her 365 Days Report Back, Gumede failed to mention the transit camps. When asked about the plans for the camps, Mthunzi Gumede said: “The mayor is still committed to the 
provision of shelter for the poor, including those living in transit camps. However, we require more resources from other spheres of government and land from human settlements.” Daily News