Further, the municipal guards - at the city’s expense - appear to be doing the work of the SAPS. The governance and human resources committee had compiled and submitted a report to the eThekwini Municipality’s executive committee (exco) last week, stating it was advised about the limited security controls and challenges experienced with access control and security management. This necessitated the improvement of security at the city hall. The procurement and installation of security equipment was approved in November last year, according to the report. However, as a result of delays, the security equipment was delivered in July and August this year and the project required a further R2.5m to complete. This includes R2.15m for four metal detectors, R150 000 for bag scanners and accessories and R200 000 for four sliding security doors. DA exco member Heinz de Boer questioned the proposed security upgrades and the additional scanners in particular. He requested a presentation of what would be installed to secure the facility. Deputy mayor Fawzia Peer said the full security plans could not be revealed. “The security measures remain confidential. We can’t be discussing them for all to see. That will defeat the purpose,” she said. De Boer asked Barbara Fontein, chairwoman of the committee, about the security installations. She said a presentation had been done for exco before the security upgrade process started, which outlined the full upgrades. She told the Daily News the limited security controls and challenges experienced with access control and security management necessitated the improvement of security at the city hall. Fontein said there were previous instances where people stormed into exco meetings due to the lack of security measures. In February last year, more than 20 disgruntled VIP bodyguards employed by the city disrupted an exco meeting, demanding their salary grievances be made part of the meeting’s agenda. Soon afterwards, the Daily News reported that a disgruntled group who claimed to be metro police officers stormed a meeting demanding to see the city leadership. In 2015, taxi owners interrupted an exco meeting demanding the release of more than 200 taxis that had been impounded by metro police. Fontein said it was these kinds of incidents that prompted the beefing up of security. Meanwhile since August, 80 guards - some from the city hall, library and museum - have been deployed in accordance with the Local Area Plan Land Use Strategy. City spokesperson Tozi Mthethwa said the guards would provide 24-hour security and also be positioned permanently at key hot spots - David Webster (Leopold) and Joe Slovo (Field) streets as well as the Anton Lembede (Smith) and Dr Pixley KaSeme (West) Street intersections with Market Street. Mthethwa said the guards’ function was crime prevention. “In case of a by-law transgression and crime, they will call out metro police or SAPS. We have received positive feedback from residents and local business owners,” she said. However, Billie Prinsloo, of the Yellowwood Park Ratepayers’ Association, called it a waste of ratepayers’ money. “There are existing departments to cope with the perceived threats to citizens,” Prinsloo said. Dennis Sokhalingam, a social activist and Clare Estate ratepayer, questioned whether the guards were adequately qualified for the job. “Ratepayers’ money is being squandered. The police are 
supposed to be preventing crime. What threat has escalated in the past 20 years that they need to splurge on security?” he asked. Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane, police spokesperson, said the deployment was the municipality’s initiative and would help the police focus on other serious crimes. Daily News