Nomarashiya Caluza, Sadtu’s provincial secretary, told journalists at a media briefing that the union had decided to call for the march this week, before the start of the Grade12 final exams. Caluza said after months of talking with Education MEC Mthandeni Dlungwana and Enoch Nzama, the head of department (HoD), they decided to take their fight to the streets. “We have lost count of the number of times that we have met with the MEC and HoD. When Dlungwana took over, we welcomed him and informed him of a list of all our grievances. “To date, none of those grievances have been addressed. We strongly feel that the department has failed us. There is a state of crisis and no stability within our department. This march will highlight a range of issues,” she said. Sadtu listed at least six items that make up their memorandum of understanding. This list included the non-filling of posts within the department. “Their failure to fill these posts, some of which are critical positions, puts undue strain on the remaining personnel. “The deputy director-general post for curriculum management and delivery remains unfilled. There are a further 184 posts of office-based managers that have yet to be filled,” she pointed out. Caluza said these posts were advertised in February last year and had still not been processed. “All these posts are intended to aid school managers and the majority of our schools do not have clerical staff, and whenever they leave, their employer would freeze their posts.” The memorandum will also include issues with the non-transfer of school funds timeously to schools, the non-implementation of post provisioning norm, and the lack of provision of basic infrastructure in schools. “Schools affected by storm damage used to receive preferential treatment in infrastructural maintenance in order to restore effective teaching and learning,” Caluza said. She added that the strike would start at 10am to allow teachers to present themselves at school before joining the march. Kwazi Mthethwa, the department’s spokesperson, said while they respected the rights of their employees to participate in a legal and protected strike, Sadtu must understand the department did not have all the solutions to their problems, “most of which involve money and payments”. “All the points that Sadtu is raising have to do with the National Treasury. “This is all about money. It is not like we are doing nothing. We understand Sadtu is not fighting with us. We have been 
engaging them. We are aware of their frustrations,” he said. Officials from the MEC’s office would be available on Friday to collect the memorandum, Mthethwa said. Daily News