This was after her office revised its initial request of R1billion made earlier this year in order to stay afloat in the next three years. “We depend on the committee and Parliament to motivate and assist to acquire more funding,” Mkhwebane said. She assured parliamentarians that a lot of the requested funding, R746 million, would be spent on the “investigative side”. The Office of the Public Protector has during the era of Thuli Madonsela pleaded for additional funds, but her pleas also fell on deaf ears with the largely ANC MPs 
unsympathetic. Last year, Madonsela asked R3 million for the investigation into the so-called state capture  but was only allocated R1.5 million. Briefing the committee yesterday, Mkhwebane said the institution’s organisational structure was inadequately funded and that they needed to establish an internal audit unit, among other things. The cost of the envisaged internal audit unit will be R3.5 million compared to the R1.4 million current spent on outsourcing the function. “We made submission to National Treasury to assist in that aspect,” Mkhwebane said. Chief executive Themba Dlamini said the institution had 707 posts in its organogram and only 392 posts were currently funded. “The office requires an additional funding of R746474926 over the medium term to fully fund the organisational 
structure. It is imperative that the Public Protector of South Africa be funded properly in order to execute its constitutional mandate,” Dlamini said. He also said there was a need to implement job evaluation conducted in 2016 for administration personnel and also align the salaries of investigators in line with occupational specific dispensation requirements. “In order to avoid Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration court battles and staff discouragement, it is imperative that staff salaries be corrected to promote 
productivity.” A total of R26 million in additional funding will be spent on their case management system and R18 million on litigation, amid the growing number of their reports being taken on judicial review. An amount R7.5 million has been requested for video conferencing facilities; R9 million for an integrated telephone system and call centre; and, R31m for subject matter experts used in complex investigations. Dlamini said R19 million was requested for security at their offices. “It should be noted that the  PPSA deals with sensitive cases and investigations which requires safekeeping and security of information. Security of our offices is therefore 
key, requiring immediate funding.” Another security concern was that Mkhwebane’s house  was recently vandalised. Dlamini also told the parliamentarians of the cost-saving measures they had undertaken to prioritise their budget to reduce cost pressures on their non-core daily activities. Funds were cut in travelling, catering, relocation costs, advertising and venue hire. The savings were redirected towards rental of office buildings, cleaning services, municipal services, rental and lease of vehicles, audit fees and to improve security at provincial offices. Daily News