Durban - Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo, MEC for Health in KwaZulu-Natal, said the Department of Health will need at least R100 million to repair the damage caused by the Durban storm on Tuesday. In a statement issued by Desmond Motha, Department of Health in KZN spokesperson, severe thunderstorms with strong gale force winds and heavy rains caused extensive structural damage and flooding in health facilities. “As a department, we now have a report that outlines our assessment findings; remedial actions; recommendations and estimates for funding required for the restoration of our health facilities to a functional state,” said Dhlomo. “Our findings are per damage for each affected institution and based on the assessment by the Provincial Infrastructure Disaster Response Teams and the Minister of Health, Dr Aaron Motsoaledi who dropped everything he was doing to come and personally assess how the hospitals were copying,” Dhlomo said. “A sum of R98 200 000 million is required and will necessitate the involvement of the Department of Public Works, the Treasury Crack Team as well as the Department of Health,” Dhlomo said. The report clearly states how each health institution was affected and also gives estimates of how much is required for restoration. Wentworth Hospital - R28 400 000
The MOPD was flooded and roofs at wards were blown off. Part of the undercover parking roof was blown off, trees fell on the Old Nurse's Home and the kitchen, creche, theraphy departments as well as the Gateway Clinic. King Edward VIII Hospital - R25 000 000
The main theatre complex, Intensive Care Unit, Hi Care wards and the MOPD were flooded. The roof at the Ultrasound and Stoma therapy buildings were blown away. While the waiting area, labour and maternity wards were also affected. Clairwood Hospital - R10 700 000
The x-ray department had its roof blown off and equipment damaged. The roofs and ceilings of the Kangaroo Mother Care Ward, laboratory, double storey Medical block, primary healthcare, children’s playroom, milk kitchen and conference centre were also damaged. The boundary wall was blown over and a number of trees were uprooted. Provincial Pharmaceutical Supply Depot - R7 600 000
The entire roof needs to be replaced, including the awning and canopy. Drains also need to be unblocked and the concrete fence replaced. Addington Hospital - R6 300 000
The Accident and Emergency Building, Children's OPD and Dental, Old Eye Clinic, generator room, O-Block and Psych Ward, passage to nurses residences, physiotherapy building, stores and linen collection area were affected by the storm. Prince Mshiyeni Memorial Hospital - R6 000 000
Water caused damage the exterior of the hospital, roofs were blown off, trees fell on car barriers and damage to stone retaining walls. Stores were flooded, as well as lecture theatres, offices, nursery, maternity and x-ray sections. Ekuhlengeni Hospital - R3 000 000
The fence needs immediate repairs because psychiatric patients are at risk of escaping. The dry wall, vinyl and portioning also need to be attended to, as well as the roof of the pharmacy and other buildings. KwaZulu Central Laundry - R2 000 000 
There was soil erosion to the truck parking area outside the sorting bay, which caused the road to the dispatch section to be closed. There were also damages to the aluminium window frames and asbestos which left the laundry roof leaking. Osindsweni Hospital - R2 000 000
Replacement of air bricks in the hallways, aluminium louvers and the retaining wall needs retainer bricks in case of a landslide. St. Mary’s Hospital - R1 500 000
Provision roof coverings over leaking roofs, replacement of Rehab Construction joints and repair asbestos roofs. St Aidans Hospital - R1 000 000
Wards and administration block flooded. Entrance was also waterlogged. It requires glass skylights, translucent roof sheeting and replace dome lights. KwaDabeka Community Health Centre - R900 000 
Replace ceilings, light fittings, smoke detectors, and ceramic floor tiles and repainting. Charles James Hospital - R700 000
The roof, walls and rainwater goods were damaged. However, the owner has started with repairs because the building is leased. Dhlomo said their patients remain a priority and they are happy that Willies Mchunu, the premier of KwaZulu-Natal is involved in ensuring that things return to normal in all areas of concern, is quickly restored. He also said Private Hospitals have made a generous gesture by offering to make their facilities available in case the department needs to transfer some patients. Daily News