Durban - Four men were arrested in the connection with the massacre of the Gwala family in Mariannhill last week. The men were arrested by police in the early hours of Sunday morning. Captain Nqobile Gwala, police spokesperson, said a joint task team proceeded to a house in the Nteke area in Mariannhill where they arrested three men. The trio was charged with murder. A fourth man was arrested later in the day in the KwaNdengezi. He was found with an unlicensed firearm and 11 rounds of ammunition. Gwala said the men are all aged between 21 and 30. Last week Thursday, the men is believed have entered a house and shot dead five family members, aged between 19 and 34. Read: Five dead in second KZN family massacre in three days Earlier in the week, eight people were gunned down in two family homes in Greytown. On October 3, five Sibiya family members were inside a rondavel when gunshots were heard. The community members checked and saw the house on fire. Attempts were made to rescue them, unfortunately the fire was uncontrollable. All five family members, a 60-year-old woman with four children aged between two and 16 died at the scene,” said Gwala. One hundred metres away from the first scene, gunshots were also heard and another Sibiya family house with four family members was on fire. The community members managed to rescue three children who sustained burn wounds but unfortunately a 58-year-old woman died at the scene. She had sustained a gunshot wound and burn wounds. The children were taken to hospital where two of them succumbed to their injuries,” Gwala continued. Mxolisi Kaunda KZN MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, has strongly condemned the murders. "We condemn this killing in the strongest terms; far too many of our people are being killed by these thugs. As the provincial Government, we have appointed the Provincial Organised Crime Task Team to investigate these murders and we have confident that their thorough investigations will result in arrest and ultimately prosecution of the perpetrators of these gruesome crimes. These killers will be caught and they face the full might of the law,” said Kaunda. The MEC also reassured residents of KZN that the police together with the Department of Community Safety and Liaison are working around the clock to strengthen the fight against crime and to restore hope in law enforcement agencies. “We are working hard to intensify our efforts to create lasting safety and security in all our neighbourhoods. We will not allow criminals to go around killing our people willy-nilly,” Kaunda said. Daily News