They said the paper was “easy and enjoyable” to write. A total of 193 768 pupils in KwaZulu-Natal, 153 624 full-time candidates and 40 318 part-time, sat down for the exams at 1 688 public school exam centres and 69 independent school exam venues. English Paper 1, language and comprehension, was the first paper written by all the registered candidates. Sihle Mlotshwa, the Department of Education spokesperson, said it was all systems go and everything went smoothly and according to plan. “The question papers were delivered to schools on time. We had no problems or any glitches reported, an indication that everything went well,” he said. At Ridge Park Girls College in Overport, pupils came out of the exam hall excited and said they felt relieved that the first paper was over and done with. While they were all confident of a pass, most described it as being easy and enjoyable. A few of them said it was average. Sumaya Paruk said she had used past matric papers to prepare and familiarise herself with the style of a matric exam paper. “The topic I chose for the essay was fun and easy because it is a topic I had written about before. I managed to finish my work on time. I am definitely getting an A for this one,” she said. Head girl Nombuso Dladla said the paper was a bit challenging, but manageable and enjoyable to write. “I enjoyed it and since it was easy, I managed to finish it on time and still had a chance to go over it again,” she said. She, however, found one section of the paper - where they had to summarise a passage in their own words - a bit difficult, forcing her to read the passage over and over again. Another excited pupil, Nomvuselelo Myende, said she was so anxious about writing the English paper she could not sleep the night before. “I am under a lot of pressure from family to perform well in these exams. The first paper is always the hardest to handle, but the exams get less intimidating as time goes. I am excited about the coming days,” she said. At Umlazi Comtech, pupils wrote an English second language paper, and after the exam, they said they were sure of their success. Andiswa Zindela said it was the easiest paper and simple to understand. Thozama Mrwebi and Lungelo Mkhize said they could not finish on time and were forced to leave out three questions. They were, however, confident about doing well. “I wish the paper was 2½ hours long. Some of the passages were too long and I had to read them more than twice to make sure. I am a slow writer and I take longer than others to finish my school work. I would have done much better if only I had more time,” she said. Lungelo Mkhize felt that although the paper was easy, it was too long to finish in two hours. “I am hoping that I will make up the marks in the sections that I managed to finish. I am still looking forward to paper 2 and I hope to write faster next time,” she said. Daily News