Menzi High School is uMlazi’s best performing school, and the internal tests carried out last term demonstrated that the matrics were on track, with 100% pass results. And repeating the school’s long run of excellent results would be a piece of cake, Ntombela said. Aiming for a sixth consecutive 100% pass rate, Ntombela said she wanted to create her own legacy for the school. Ntombela - who has taught at the school since 1985 and was deputy to legendary, award-winning principal, the late Felix Mshololo - had to maintain excellent results when she took over in 2015. With close to 30 years of experience at the school, she said she knew exactly what to do when she took over. “I still follow the same recipe for success we have been using for years. Winning “Teamwork and hard work from day one is our winning combination.” She said that an early start in the year enabled the teachers to complete the syllabus by August, thus reserving the rest of the time for revision and preparations. “We open one week ahead in January and we start the distribution of stationery to our pupils. Pupils are not sent home after writing tests. They stay at school and continue with classes,” she added. Only two pupils failed the second-term exams and a turnaround strategy was developed and everyone, including fellow pupils, provided them with the assistance they needed. “In the third term, the two pupils achieved excellent results. We are comfortably at a stage where nothing will stop us from achieving excellent results. We are aiming for nothing less than a 100% pass rate again this year.” Ntombela believes that going the extra mile and adding a special touch in the classroom were the main ingredients that had placed her school at the top of the matric results ladder for five years in a row. And her motherly touch has not disappointed her. “Our biggest challenge is that our pupils come from disadvantaged and poor communities. "They come to school hungry, and since the school is a quintile 4 school we do not qualify to benefit from the school nutrition programme. I cannot teach them on empty stomachs, so I make my own means to feed them,” she said. The school provides pupils with sandwiches during lunchtime and in the afternoon. Meal “The Grade 12s are at school until 6pm, and being aware of their situations at home, the school provides them with a meal to keep them going,” she said. Like many public schools, the school faces challenges of overcrowding, lack of resources and lack of good infrastructure, but has overcome these and achieved excellent results. Daily News