Durban - A few Independent Media staff members walked about 23km to make it home during Tuesday’s storm in order to sleep in their own beds that night. Vincent Jili said sleeping on street was not an option because he has a bed at home. “I arrived at M.N.R. taxi rank along Warwick Avenue and there was a long queue. Although there were taxis, the drivers said they will not drive because there was no way in uMlazi,” said Jili. He said there were no trains either and seeing that there was no alternative mode of transport, the only other way to get home was to walk. “I walked for about five hours and by the time I got home I was a little exhausted,” Jili continued. Jili said he was not walking alone, but there was a lot more people to opted to walk. Even though Jili walked all the way to uMlazi D section, he was back at work early on Wednesday morning. Zandile Dlamini said she usually takes the train home but decided to take taxi’s that day. Dlamini said when she arrived at the taxi rank, the taxi drivers said they cannot drive in those weather conditions. “I left work and went to Berea (M.N.R taxi rank) and found a very long queue. So it was either sleeping in town or coming back to work. So I walked to different taxi ranks, looking for taxis. Then I decided to walk,” said Dlamini. Dlamini said she was determined to get home because her daughter said mud had found its way into their house. “My child was alone and she said the storm caused mud to enter the house. So I had to get home,” continued Dlamini. She said she decided to walk at 4.45pm and reached home in uMlazi at 8.10pm. “I was tired but couldn’t sleep during the night. Even now I can still feel the journey in my legs,” said Dlamini. Other staff members who decided to walk home were the women who work in production, Nompumelelo Gumede and Itumeleng Monyane walked. However, they did not walk together because they left work at different times. Gumede who works in production said, she went to the taxi rank after work and when she got there, there were no taxis. “Every now and then, one taxi would come and eventually they stopped coming. Then we saw other people walking, so we joined them.” Gumede walked from the taxi rank, all the way to uMlazi H-section. She left at 7.30pm and got home after 1.30am the next day. As a result, she did not go to work on Wednesday. One would think that they would walk along the freeway through to uMlazi, instead they took various shortcuts in order to head home. Monyane said she and her sister left work at 1pm but when they saw that there were no taxis at the taxi rank. “Around 2.30pm, we decided to walk to Umlazi,” said Monyane. “We got home around 6.30pm.” She said although they were determined to get home, it was unfortunate that they walked past a dead body. She said she could not get up the next morning to go to work because she was exhausted. There are many more like these staff members who walked home after Tuesday’s storm. Daily News