Durban - Residents celebrating Diwali have been urged to follow the eThekwini Municipality by-laws and remembering the importance of using fireworks responsibly this week. Steve Middleton, Metro Police Acting Head said the city respects and appreciates the different religions and cultural practices in eThekwini and added that, according to the by-laws Diwali is categorised as a religious and cultural day. “As much as we understand that it is a time for celebration, fireworks are to be used in a responsible and considerate manner with due respect for neighbours and the welfare animals,” said Middleton. Middleton said fireworks that are classified in the Explosives Act No. 26 of 1956 as 1.3, should be discharged by a qualified pyrotechnician and that only shop-bought fireworks are allowed to be used by residents. He advised residents to ensure that pets are fitted with a collar that has an identification tag which states their home address and telephone number, in case they get lost. Middleton said residents need to adhere to the following: - No person must allow or permit any child under the age of 16 years to handle or use fireworks, except under the supervision of an adult. - No person shall ignite, discharge or explode any fireworks on any public road, residence, or private dwelling without the knowledge and consent of the occupant or owner of the property. - It is unlawful for any person to point or direct a firework at any person, animal, building or motor vehicle where such firework is in the process of exploding or detonating. - No person shall light or detonate fireworks in any place where animals are kept. - No person may terrify, cause stress or endanger the life of any animal with fireworks or by any other means. - No retail dealer shall sell fireworks to the public other than the consumer fireworks, which contains low hazard. - No person may use any fireworks other than the consumer fireworks in any residence except on approved days. These are currently Diwali; Guy Fawkes and 31 December from 11.45pm until 12.15am. Middleton also urged residents to report non-compliance to Metro Police on 031 361 0000. Daily News