Wendel Ogle is accused of shooting three people at Eco Park on the Bluff last year. Two men died and a woman was left in a serious condition. Marius van der Looy, the investigating officer, said 
Ogle, 25, was arrested last week after being on the run since December last year. It is alleged that Ogle and a group of six friends arrived at Eco Park in December. It is unclear what the motive behind the shooting was, but according to Van der Looy shots were fired into a car, killing the two men, one of whom was a taxi driver. A woman in the car was shot in the lower part of her body. “We followed up on information and traced Ogle to a place in Upington. There was correspondence between myself and police in that area and he was arrested and brought back to Durban,” Van der Looy said. Ogle appeared in front of a courtroom filled with the relatives of the men he is alleged to have killed. The families wore T-shirts with the dead men’s faces on them. During the court proceedings Ogle, dressed in a grey T-shirt and blue jeans, kept looking out the door at his friends standing in the passage. They passed comments and laughed, while the families of the dead men looked on. The case was adjourned to next week, and Ogle was remanded. There have been three recent murders in the Durban south area. In June Llewellyn Edwards, 35, was shot and killed outside the Lavo nightclub (formerly Hip Hop Palace) on the Bluff. In July, Chadleigh David, 26, was killed in a drive-by shooting outside his home in Bute Lane, Wentworth. Last month Waylon Hutchinson was shot. Hutchinson was sitting in a car with his two cousins, aged 17 and 19, and two friends when a VW Polo drove past them on Richard Winn Road. Shots were fired. Hutchinson died in hospital. In a previous interview with the Daily News, Kwanele Ncalane, the spokesperson for Mxolisi Kaunda, MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, said the deployment of a gang unit to the area to curb the shootings would be one of the measures taken into consideration. Community leaders believe that the shootings stem from turf wars between rival groups. Desmond D’Sa, chairman of the Wentworth Community Forum, welcomed Ogle’s arrest. “I hope they keep him inside and do not grant him bail. An example needs to be set. We cannot have our community paying the price and these youngsters get bail,” he said. D’Sa called for an investigation into a number of cases in which suspects have been arrested for shootings but the matters have been thrown out of court. “We are in the process of gathering those CAS (Crime Administration System) numbers to find out who is investigating these cases,” he said. Daily News