Durban - Tons of dirt have been collected from various parts of the city, as part of Operation Khuculul’itheku.
The project was launched by eThekwini mayor Zandile Gumede last month. According to Tozi Mthethwa, city spokesperson, the project was launched in the central business district (CBD), with the main focus being Dr Pixley KaSeme and various identified hot spots in the CBD and Point area. Since the campaign started a few weeks ago it has yielded positive results in ensuring safety and cleanliness in the two busiest business districts in eThekwini Municipality - Isipingo and the CBD, she said. Mthethwa said the campaign focused on the holistic maintenance of the city, including dealing with potholes, poor verge maintenance, illegal businesses, non-compliance with by-law enforcement, faulty traffic lights, dilapidated and overcrowded buildings, inappropriate land uses and illegal dumping. “Operation Khuculul’itheku is a long-term multipillar clean-up campaign aimed at addressing urban decay, creating a clean environment and a sustainable city. This involves all units within the eThekwini Municipality,” Mthethwa said. She also said the city had 574 street sweepers covering three shifts, picking between eight to 20 tons of litter in the CBD daily, and conducting street washing in high-impact areas. The cleaning and solid waste unit also undertakes ongoing education campaigns, working with schools, taxi associations and informal traders, among others, to ensure that the anti-litter message gets out to communities. While licensed informal traders are educated about litter, given bin bags and ensure responsible disposal of their waste, illegal traders pose a huge challenge for the city because they are unregulated. READ: Dirty Durban not good for business Gumede said major cleaning campaigns would restore the city’s image and drive Durban towards achieving its 2030Vision of becoming Africa’s most caring and livable city. “We will work hard to reclaim our public spaces which will restore investor confidence in the city,” Gumede said. Already, a number of warnings and fine notices had been issued to transgressors for various by-law contraventions. Metro police had issued almost 60000 fines in keeping with the Public Nuisances and Behaviour in Public Places by-law and the Informal Trading by-law since its promulgation. The city has identified a number of problem buildings, some of which are operating illegally. Some of the most run-down buildings are located in Joseph Nduli, Dr Yusuf Dadoo, Anton Lembede, Joe Slovo and Monty Naicker streets. The city conducts regular raids in an effort to regularise or close down these buildings that harbour criminals and drug lords and impact on safety. Daily News