Durban - The financial implications of the recent storm that battered various parts of the city had reached just over half a billion rands, and the amount could escalate as the assessment of the damage is ongoing. According to a report tabled at the city’s executive committee at the city hall on Monday, the amount to repair infrastructure damaged during the storm is over R576 million. The engineering related repairs would require R308 million, human settlements requires R250 million, disaster management and emergency control R4.1 million,parks and recreations R7.7 million, cleansing and solid waste R1.3 million, electricity R2.6 million and water and sanitation R2.3 million. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The report also requested that the Executive Committee declare a local state of disaster within the municipality. Due to the volume of incidents reported and limited staff capacity, priority will be given to households with major impact. Sixty wards were affected with 3 112 households impacted. The majority of which, 2 425 households, were in the South of the City. Thirteen people were confirmed dead as a result of the storm. Twenty libraries, 23 swimming pools, 21 community halls, three parks, one heritage site, three museums and four sports facilities were damaged. Regarding roads and stormwater, there were 1 081 faults received including landslides, damaged roads, potholes, missing manhole covers as well as the road washing away. “The Architecture Unit together with Coastal and Storm Catchment consolidated a list of all affected suffered damages worth R308 106 350,” reads the report. Martin Xaba, acting deputy city manager of community and emergency services said it was crucial for various departments to start the rehabilitation of damaged infrastructure. “The approval of the report also allows the Finance Department to find savings to ensure rehabilitation of infrastructure goes ahead,” he said. Daily News