Zikalala at the weekend revealed he was being courted by possible future leaders of the ANC and potentially the country while speaking at the ANC Youth League’s 73rd anniversary rally in Mandeni on Saturday. “We sat down as comrades who know each other, and they put their ambitions and availability on the table, and there is no problem with that. I told them we would discuss (their ambitions) as the ANC in KZN. They each outlined their individual leadership strategies,” Zikalala said. On Tuesday, the most senior ANC leader in the province would not divulge who had approached him or why they had sought him out. As it is well known that Zikalala is supporting Dlamini Zuma, this means that potentially, Cyril Ramaphosa, Lindiwe Sisulu, Baleka Mbete, Jeff Radebe, Zweli Mkhize and Mathews Phosa have spoken to Zikalala in the past few months. Political analyst Lukhona Mnguni said he was not surprised that Zikalala was being approached by the other candidates as nothing was set in stone when it came to politics. “Of course the province is divided, but (this is the case in) all provinces, so it’s important for you to try and attempt to talk to all sides of the factions to gain a sense of the political temperature. “Some people who are standing do not want to be seen as associating with a particular faction because if they say they want to lead a united ANC, they must appear to be able to talk to all sides of the factional divide. “The minute you say 'I will not talk to those comrades', you alienate those comrades, but also you alienate potential support heading towards the conference,” Mnguni said. He added there could be a window of opportunity where the front runners might end up being ditched for less divisive figures within the party. It was important for candidates who see themselves as potential unifiers of the ANC to hit the ground running and make themselves alternatives before the chairpersons come up with a name, he said. “It doesn’t matter that the KZN ANC has pronounced (that they are backing Dlamini Zuma), nothing is cast in stone because preferences are preferences, and they must read this within the broader prevailing political landscape within the ANC. Avoiding a split “So while you might have your preference, if the objective evidence is placed before you that the emergence of a particular candidate might lead to a splinter group from the ANC and a breakaway party, then you know there is a high chance that the ANC might not win the elections in 2019,” Mnguni said. He said people are thinking what good it would be to inherit an ANC that might not be in power in 2019. “You want the emergence of a candidate who is not going to lead to a split of the ANC.” Mnguni said it was likely that some of the candidates have also gone to Senzo Mchunu’s group for support. At Saturday’s event, Zikalala said the ANC in KZN was backing Dlamini Zuma because she was not part of any faction and she would ensure policies around land distribution without compensation and radical economic transformation became a reality. Daily News