Cape Town - An area of Scottsdene in Kraaifontein has been dubbed “Kill Me Quick” by residents because a walk on these streets could be the last you ever take. On Thursday four men were gunned down in broad daylight when more than 20 shots were fired on the corner of Park Lane and Hartebees Street in Zoopark. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Police say one man, Mitcheli van Neel, 25, who was shot in the head, died on the scene. It’s believed another victim known as Jayno died in an ambulance on his way to the Kraaifontein hospital, but police could not confirm this. Jayno, 17, was shot in his leg and head. The other two victims, also aged 17, were shot in the leg and foot. A parent of one of the deceased, known as Auntie Rosie, says she had just come off night shift when she was informed her fourth eldest child had been killed. “My daughter is taking this loss very hard and we do not know how to cope. Mitcheli was not involved in any sort of gang or drugs. He was coming home from the shop when he was shot on the corner in what people say was a drive-by shooting,” she says. “My son was unemployed, but he was a peaceful child and never gave me any problems.” Witnesses say the shooters jumped out of their car and shot the four men, before speeding off down Carmen Street and disappearing into the “Kill Me Quick” zone. Captain Nopaya Madyibi confirms the incident. “A murder case as well as three attempted murder cases have been opened and circumstances surrounding the incident are being investigated, with no arrests made at this stage.” Since November last year, at least six people have been killed in “Kill Me Quick”. Duwayne Abrahams from Joseph Lane in Kraaifontein was shot and killed on 18 November 2016 after he walked in the Zoo gang’s turf. Thomas Booysen, 22, was shot about 16 times in December 2016. A gunman, who hid away at a local spaza shop after allegedly shooting and killing a 16-year-old boy, was caught by an angry mob in March 2017. On 28 June 28, Kelvin “Elvis” Stuurman, 21, was killed because he was in a rival gang’s territory. In April, the body of a 22-year-old was found in a dilapidated shop building in Koopman’s Avenue. And a 15-year-old boy was stabbed to death by a fellow learner after an argument broke out at Scottsdene High in June. Daily Voice