As the deadline to deliver stationery for next year draws closer, the suppliers feared schools would be without books when they open. One of the suppliers told the Daily News the schools he was contracted to did not have the money to pay for the stationery orders. “Usually the deadline for stationery deliveries is the end of October. Payments and the procurement processes are concluded by June. The delays would mean that schools will be without books on the first day,” said the supplier. Earlier this month, the Daily News reported that some schools had only been paid part of the allocation per pupil and as a result principals were borrowing from loan sharks to run schools. An investigation conducted by the provincial education portfolio committee recently found that at least 100 schools were not paid the annual norms and standards allocations. Another supplier, who did not want to be named for fear of being victimised, said the non-payments could only mean there was something very wrong with the department’s financial affairs. A  service provider in the Zululand district confirmed that stationery had no been delivered because schools said they were unable to pay for their orders. Bheki Shandu, deputy secretary of the SA Democratic Teachers’ Union, said they were seeking legal advice on how to force the department to pay schools so they could pay service providers to deliver stationery before schools closed. Allen Thompson, deputy president of the National Teachers’ Union, said the department was deliberately ignoring paying schools until schools closed so they would forfeit the funds. “We are going to make sure that whatever was owed to schools for this year will be carried over to next year because principals do not run schools for free. They have accumulated 
debts to keep schools running,” said Thompson. The department, however, poured cold water on the suppliers’ fears. Spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa said service providers should allow them space to run the department the best way they knew how. “The service providers are causing unnecessary panic. Our efforts of ensuring there would be stationery at all our schools on the first day are under way,” said Mthethwa. He said service providers should have contacted the department to find out what was happening. He insisted that schools which had submitted all the relevant documentation to support their enrolment had received their norms and standard payments, and should have been able to finalise their stationery orders. “Those schools which had provided half-proof of enrolment had received half the funds. Service providers with issues should contact our district offices,” said Mthethwa. Daily News