Chetty said about 25000 tickets (50%) had already been sold. These included season ticket holders and box suites. The ticket office’s operating hours have been extended and it will be open from 8.30am to 6pm. This comes as Durban’s crème de la crème encouraged Durbanites to #FillUpTheSharkTank. Dolphins and Proteas all-rounder Keshav Maharaj, top left, said: “Really excited and can’t wait to watch the game. Obviously I’ll be rooting for my Durban boys. Wish them everything of the best. They have been playing some really exciting rugby and I’m sure they will carry that momentum into this game.” South African sprint canoeist Bridget Hartley said: “I am looking forward to watching the Sharks take on Province in Durban this weekend. I will be supporting the Sharks for sure! I really hope they keep theirs heads if they are put under pressure and take all the opportunities possible.” East Coast Radio’s Darren Maule said he expected the Sharks to win by about 12 points. Maule said the country, and especially KwaZulu-Natal, had had a difficult year in rugby. The final could be what brought people together and made everyone in the province proud. He also encouraged people to fill up the stadium to keep in check Bloemfontein-born Jaco Pyper who will be refereeing the game. Maule said Pyper had a history of giving bad decisions when the boys in black and white were playing. Maybe something had happened to Pyper as a child, he mused. This is why it was important for people to come out in their numbers. “They must do it to encourage him to be the brilliant referee he can be,” Maule said. A full Shark Tank would also buoy the spirits of some of the younger players in the team, he said. One of the people who will be at the tank is former eThekwini council speaker Logie Naidoo, top right. “The Sharks are (our) biggest brand and all people should come to support them,” he said. Naidoo said he had a “good feeling” about this year’s final. Comedian Masood Boomgaard said: “It’s always good for the city of Durban when the Sharks do well. Besides the bragging rights and prestige that comes with winning a major cup, I think people are just generally in a happier mood when the team wins. I am sure as a city we will be giving them that push they need to get over the line.” Fellow comedian Carvin Goldstone said it had been a long time since the Sharks had been in a final and or won the cup. “We have been waiting for a day like this,” he said. He remembered the 2010 victory of The Sharks over Western Province and said it was  a “beautiful experience”. Goldstone said although the past few years had not been the best, it was important for fans to come out in their numbers to the game. Actor and comedian Aaron McIlroy said: “I’ll definitely be watching, hopefully at the game. My advice for the Sharks? Don’t suck! “Seriously, we have the side to win, and I think it’s a new beginning for a resurgent Sharks team. I think Gary Teichmann and his team are doing a great job and I believe we’ll win and win well.” Movie and soap actress Nomzamo Mbatha said good attendance would be the “wind beneath the wings of the Sharks”. Even though there had been a few bumps on the road, she was confident the boys would be able to do it in the end. “My money is definitely on the home boys and they are not going to disappoint,” Mbatha said.