Thabani Osbourne Shange pleaded guilty on Monday to killing Siyanda Kubheka, 26; Sphamandla Mavundla, 29; Siphelele Kubheka, 36; Mcebisi Gondo, 28; Hlengiwe 
Dubazane, 20; and Nonhlanhla Mthalane, 22. They were shot dead at the house of an alleged whoonga dealer known as Fabry. A seventh victim, Bongani Ntuli, survived. Shange was arrested on September 8, in Georgedale in connection with a separate murder in Mpumalanga. He was the second person to be arrested for the Hammarsdale murders. Sisanda Mvinjane, 22, had pleaded guilty and was sentenced to 30 years in prison on March 2. He had implicated Shange in the killings. In his guilty plea, Shange told the court that on the day of the murders, he had been home drinking with his friends. One of them, whoonga dealer Ayanda Shezi, said there was someone else dealing in his territory. Shange said they decided to confront the alleged dealer. Armed, some of them walked to the house where whoonga was being sold and where smokers gathered. Shange said five of them attacked the people inside and told them to stop stealing Shezi’s customers. “I heard several gunshots go off and  realised that my companions had opened fire on the people inside the house. I saw one person who had been shot but was still moving. I grabbed Shezi’s firearm and shot that person in the stomach. A total of seven people were shot and we then fled,” he said. When they went to the house, Shange said, they had been well aware that should Fabry refuse to stop selling drugs, the people inside the house would be killed. Police said yesterday they were still looking for a third suspect. Two others who were also involved in the murders were killed in a shoot-out with police during a robbery in Zululand earlier this year. Passing sentence, acting judge Anand Maharaj said what Shange did was inhumane, and he described the acts as those of a serial killer. He said Shange and his friends had no respect for human life. “The victims were killed execution-style - guns were held against their heads when the shots were fired. One of the (female) victims’ post-mortem findings showed that a firearm was held to her head,” 
said Maharaj. Daily News