Durban - Sergeant Jonathan van Zyl, a professional Army Photographer in the British Army’s Royal Logistic Corps (RLC) has won the Professional Portrait and Best Overall Image categories of the Army Photographic Competition with his black and white portrait of a soldier on exercise, titled ‘1000 miles’. Van Zyl, originally from Salt Rock on  the north coast of KwaZulu-Natal works at Andover UK-based British Army Headquarters and was recently promoted from the rank of Corporal. On his win, van Zyl said: “It’s absolutely great news. I really didn’t expect to win. I’ve seen some of the other entries and I didn’t think I stood even half a chance.” Van Zyl was presented with his prize by Chief of the General Staff General Sir Nicholas Carter at a ceremony held at the prestigious Imperial War Museum, London, on Wednesday, where a display of the winning images is being hosted. Van Zyl is a father of two who lives in Andover, moved into Photography two years ago from 1st Battalion Princess of Wales’s Royal Regiment (1PWRR) where he was an infantry soldier for 11 years, based in Germany. “This is my first pro competition I’ve won,” he said. “In 2013 I won best portrait in the amateur category, so, it was finally that jump from amateur to pro. I realised then that I wanted to do this full time.” Van Zyl beat some of his fellow Army Photographers, civilian, cadet and public entrants to the other categories who submitted 780 photographs in 12 categories. Videos were double the number last year at 52. Two new categories this year were ‘Op Camera’ for members of the public to enter their Army images and ‘Cadet Life’ for Army cadets. Van Zyl explained how his winning portrait came about during Exercise Northern Strike in America with 3PWRR. “It was one of those moments; you just saw it and you took it. It wasn’t planned or anything, but it works,” he said. “I think it’s the soldier’s eyes, looking into his eyes, it draws you into it.” Van Zyl started photography about seven years ago after the birth of his son when he had completed a tour of duty in Afghanistan and three in Iraq during his time with 1PWRR. “As soon as I pressed the shutter, that was me, I was hooked to it and ever since then it just grew. It’s like a bug, once it’s bitten you, you’re stuck with it,” he said. “What I love the most about photography is the pictures. I just love pictures, looking at pictures; it tells a story. It’s a form of escapism where you can simply get in the zone. That’s why I really enjoy it. My favourite camera is the Nikon D5, purely for its speed and low light capabilities. It’s an awesome piece of kit.” Command Master Photographer WO1 (Conductor) Will Craig said: “I have been running the Army photographic competition for the last four years and this year has seen the highest amount of entries ever seen. The images have really captured the judges’ attention, as well as the public having a sneak preview seeing the online category.” Daily News