AfriForum chief executive Kallie Kriel said he believed that all lives mattered. “The reason for the focus on farm murders is because a farmer is four times more likely to be killed than any other South African. If we have 16 days of activism for no violence against  women and children, it does not mean there is disregard for violence against men - it recognises a a specific problem that needs to be addressed. “The same applies for the campaign against farm murders. It is aimed at a specific problem of the disproportionate number of farm murders, without saying other violence is acceptable,” Kriel said. He said the march put “the neglected issue of farm murders” on the agenda. KZN Violence Monitor Mary de Haas said farmers “quite correctly” said they played an important role in ensuring the country’s food security. “Farmers are attacked because of high levels of violent crime in rural areas. There’s generally a much higher solving rate for crimes against farmers than general crime because they are seen as priority crimes. “From information gleaned from perpetrators, it seems they had carried out lesser crimes in their own communities and not suffered consequences so they went on to commit bigger crimes. So there’s a message there, about preventing crimes against farmers by dealing with people who commit crimes in their own communities.” De Haas said farmers might also be targeted because they were thought to have guns. Older farmers were particularly vulnerable, as were older people living in urban areas, for being seen as ‘soft targets’. “Crimes against farmers are part of the broader problem of rural safety, including traditional areas. If these are addressed, then farmers, too, will be safer.” The marching farmers took flak from people who vented their anger on social media for flying the old apartheid-era flag. Some said flying the old flag was an incitement to civil war. There was also a call for the arrest of a farmer who was pictured burning the new flag. A social media user, David van Wyk, posted that he would not wear black because it was a race-based campaign predicated on a lie. “The lie is that white farmers are politically targeted for murder and brutalisation. Crime, brutality and violence affect black South Africans to a far greater extent than it does the white population in general and white farmers in particular. “Add to this the structural violence of poverty, inequality, unemployment and a failure by the state to provide adequate services and exclusion from land and real economic opportunities, and the violence against the majority of our people becomes unbearable.” He said AfriForum was only concerned about “a privileged, wealthy, racial minority”. “This is why they cannot expect support from the rest of the population,” he said. DA KZN leader Zwakele Mncwango said the campaign should be about ending attacks. “The problem starts when we classify issues across racial lines. Farm employees are also affected by farm attacks so the focus should not be on farm owners alone. Crime affects everyone,” Mncwango said. Cosatu also bashed the “farmers’ racist march”. IFP MP Nhlanhla Msimango said crime affected all citizens equally. ANC provincial chairman Sihle Zikalala said crime was the same whether it was committed against a black or white community. “It doesn’t help to burn the SA flag and portray the apartheid flag as good. This undermines the achievements of our liberation Struggle,” Zikalala said. Daily News