This comes after President Jacob Zuma reshuffled his 
cabinet. He moved Hlengiwe Mkhize from the Home Affairs portfolio to replace Nzimande. This ministry also has a new deputy minister in Buti Manamela, a former SACP youth leader. In a hastily convened media briefing, SACP deputy secretary-general Solly Mapaila said the party would not allow itself to be “cajoled” by Zuma into accepting Nzimande’s axing, but also that the party would not allow the tripartite alliance to collapse because of their differences. “This is a clear declaration of war on the SACP by President Zuma because it is quite clear that the decision has nothing to do with strengthening the state or cabinet. “In any case, he has retained deadwood in that cabinet, people who are laced with corruption and scandals yet he is not removing them,” Mapaila said. “This reshuffle was actually a decoy. There was no reshuffle, actually. The intention was just to remove comrade Blade. Essentially, that is what Zuma has done. That is why we are reading it clear; it’s an attack on the SACP and we are going to effectively respond back to him as the SACP.” Asked whether Nzimande and other SACP members would resign as MPs, Mapaila said the party has, for now, decided that they should remain in Parliament, pending a directive from a higher structure of the party. “The issue of SACP ministers resigning or staying has been discussed before in the politburo and the special central committee of the SACP about the fact that the cabinet does not belong to Zuma. “We participate in the elections through the alliance as the SACP. We fight together in the trenches with the ANC, we give a mandate to a 
president through a party political system. "President Zuma did not stand as an individual and win elections. Therefore, the cabinet does not belong to him. “We will give an effective response to that effect when a bigger forum of the SACP meets. We will also decide in that meeting whether comrade Blade remains in Parliament or he comes back to the party headquarters because even when we sent him to Parliament, it was a decision of the SACP.” Mapaila said Zuma has “detached himself” from the masses that support the liberation movement and some of the ANC leaders cannot defend some of the decisions he makes. The briefing was attended by SACP leaders, except Nzimande, “because this affected him directly”. Meanwhile, Cosatu said it was not convinced that Zuma's cabinet reshuffle  was in the best interests of the country as he had retained some ineffectual ministers. “Cosatu expects the cabinet reshuffles to be about strengthening the capacity of government in order to help government to better implement its developmental agenda and deliver on its promises,”  it said. “We are not convinced that this reshuffle is informed by that (agenda), considering that some of the most ineffectual ministers like Minister Bathabile Dlamini, Minister Nomvula Mokonyane, and Minister Mosebenzi Zwane are still part of the national executive.” Cosatu is part of the tripartite alliance, consisting of the ANC, Cosatu and the SACP. While confirming it received a courtesy call from Zuma before announcing the reshuffle, Cosatu said it found the “frequency” of cabinet reshuffles unsettling. It was contributing towards instability in key government departments. “All of this is happening while workers and the poor are continuing to be victims of a system that has condemned millions of our fellow citizens to lives of brutal survival,” the trade union federation said. Cosatu, along with the SACP, some of Zuma’s biggest supporters in the past, remain some of his fiercest critics now following allegations of state capture benefiting the president’s friends. Both alliance partners had gone as far as calling on the President to resign. - ANA