The storm ravaged various parts of the city, leaving some families homeless, while other homes were partially damaged. The city’s assessment of the damage is ongoing and yesterday it confirmed that more than 2 000 households had been affected. The city’s executive committee sitting on Monday noted a report which sought to spend R13.37 million to build 418 prefabricated structures for shack dwellers in various parts of the city. S’bu Zikode, president of Abahlali, labelled the intervention a waste of public funds and “an insult” to the “poorest of the poor”. “People have been building shacks for themselves and on numerous occasions, we have had the municipality sending Red Ants to demolish those shacks. “Why provide improved shacks when you don’t want shacks in your city? “How are these improved shacks legal compared to the ones people build for themselves? This is an insult to the city and a waste of public money. “This spending is not going to benefit all the affected shack dwellers because we have not been consulted about the plan to ensure that we identify all the affected,” Zikode said. He said shacks and RDP houses in areas like Joe Slovo informal settlement, Cato Crest and Lamontville’s Barcelona transit camp had been either washed away or “flattened” by the storm. Vincent Ngubane, head of the eThekwini Disaster Management Unit, said 2934 households had been affected by the storm and that an assessment of the situation was ongoing. Ngubane said the city’s Human Settlements Department would spend R194.7m to build 1770 RDP houses, R9.2m to repair damaged roofs to 489 RDP houses and R13.3m to build 418 prefab structures for informal settlement dwellers. The city would spend R25m on retaining walls to prevent further erosion and mudslides in the affected areas. A further R7.6m would be spent on material to be dispatched to affected households for repairs. “Shopping malls, electric installations, water and sanitation installations, roads and bridges were affected by this weather. In total 52 wards and 2934 households were affected and the police are yet to provide the exact number of deaths,” Ngubane said. The city experienced 724 blocked stormwater inlets while 135 potholes were created in eThekwini, he said. “The bulk of this work is routine maintenance work and the cost would be covered by the operating budget. Most of the work is expected to be completed in two weeks,” Ngubane said. About R2.3m would be required to reinstate the water infrastructure to 3000 households whose supply and sanitation had been affected, while R2.6m would be required to fix perimeter fencing and faulty electric circuits. DA leader Zwakele Mncwango questioned the speed at which the municipality had responded to the storm. “Did you get a warning from the SA Weather Service and was the warning effectively sent to the communities? My worry is that in a city of our size with a budget of R42billion, we should be capable of communicating effectively with the people during a disaster. I believe that our infrastructure has failed us,” Mncwango said. Ngubane said the SA Weather Service had provided weather warnings and that before the storm, a warning had come in predicting a storm from the South Coast. He said there was no information system to warn all the residents of impending disaster. Mdu Nkosi, IFP exective committee member agreed the drainage system had failed the city, but encouraged members to focus on providing relief. City manager Sipho Nzuza said there was a need to shorten the process of attending to all the affected people. “The situation we experienced in the Isipingo transit camp was very dire. The process to access funds to respond to disasters would be reviewed to ensure the city responded timeously,” he said. Daily News