This follows a report tabled at the council’s executive committee (Exco) sitting in the Durban City Hall on Monday. According to the report, the city was looking at amending certain rules in the eThekwini Municipality Rules of Order By-law 2014. Among those is Rule 7, which prohibits the exclusion of the media and the public from Exco meetings. The amendment would allow Exco to close its meetings to the public, including the media, “where it is reasonable to do so having regard to the nature of the matter under consideration and where there may be a disclosure of confidential or privileged information regarding any investigation”, the report read. The media could also be excluded over issues of municipal trade secrets or financials, business, scientific or technical information that is likely to cause prejudice to the business or interests of the municipality. Members of the media at the meeting would not be allowed to use any type of recording device without permission from the Speaker or the Exco chairperson. The opposition party, the DA,  protested against the amendment, questioning its constitutionality. Speaker William Mapena said: “This is the final process in the matter. All the comments are there and it will go to adoption.” Adoption The report will be presented before the Full Council this week for adoption despite the opposition’s warning that the planned ban was unconstitutional. According to the report, the amendment to the by-law was presented at the Speaker’s Committee on May 8 and presentations were thereafter made to political party caucuses that requested it. These were the DA, IFP and ANC caucuses on May 12, 16 and 19 respectively. Party caucuses were invited to submit their comments to the legal and compliance unit. The public participation was for 30 days from June 16 and no further comments were received apart from those received during the party caucuses. Biko Mutsaurwa, the R2K spokesperson, said their legal representatives would be watching the developments. “We are warning the Durban Metro against gagging or trying to gag the media, and caution them about the by-laws that contradict the Freedom Charter. “If they go ahead with this, then they should expect litigation,” Mutsaurwa said. Dario Milo, a media law expert, said only in exceptional cases, and only for good reason, could some aspects of a meeting be closed to the public. “The council would need to motivate for this. Anyone can fight this through the courts,” Milo said. Professor George Devenish, constitutional law expert, said the conduct of the council should be challenged. “Freedom of expression was a fundamental right guaranteed in section 16 of the constitution. This freedom is essential for the realisation of other guaranteed freedoms such as access to information in section 32 and political rights in section 19. “Rights can, of course, be limited in accordance with the limitation clause, section 39, but not in an arbitrary way but only in a way which must be justifiable in an open and democratic society based on human dignity, equality and freedom,” he said. Daily News