The senior officer, who asked to remain anonymous, said letters and reports detailing how the “rogue” officers “broke every rule” had been sent to both provincial and national police offices, to no avail. “Numerous criminal activities were committed by the two senior officials (names withheld) and a handful of accomplices. Corruption and victimisation at the KwaMashu police station was brought to the attention of the KZN and national police leadership. “I investigated, compiled reports and wrote to the provincial and national leadership. One case that comes to mind happened in 2013 when the officers were conducting a stop-and-search in the area. “A van was stopped and in it was a dead man with his body covered with a white blanket.” He said the “team leader” negotiated with the occupants of the van and a R400 bribe exchanged hands. “One of the officers refused to take a cut from this bribe and he was intimidated. He reported the matter and has since left the area in fear of his life.” Senior “The same senior officer (who took the bribe) was running a pyramid scheme at the station and this, too, was never looked into by the management,” the officer said. The Daily News has seen copies of letters to the national police office and acknowledgement of receipts dated May 2010 and April 2013. Another letter, dated April12, 2013, was addressed to suspended provincial police commissioner Mmamonnye Ngobeni by police union Popcru, calling for an investigation into allegations of intimidation and harassment against the 
two officers. The concerned officer said all his attempts to bring the rogue cops to book had failed. An officer who has knowledge of the allegations said the matter was sensitive. “I’m aware of the dead body but I can’t comment because I don’t know you. This is a very sensitive matter and a lot has happened at that station since that incident,” said the officer. The Popcru representative who had signed the letter addressed to Ngobeni also refused to comment. “I don’t want to be part of this, and you can’t publish the letter because I’m no longer with Popcru,” said the officer. Popcru provincial chairperson, Mbongeni Dladla, referred the Daily News to the organisation’s secretary, Nthabeleng Molefe, who could not be reached and did not reply to a message. When contacted, Ngobeni said she should not be bothered as she was on suspension. Provincial police spokesperson Brigadier Jay Naicker said the acting KZN commissioner, Major-General Bheki Langa, had appointed the cluster commander to investigate the allegations. Daily News