The matter has now gone into a trial-within-a-trial in the Pietermaritzburg High Court. Thulani Moses Mthembu, 43, claimed through his lawyer that the police officer who arrested him had promised to “look after him”, and as a result he agreed to make a confession statement to the police. The Solik couple were attacked at their home at Bend Estate in Nottingham Road on February 17. Their bodies were discovered with their hands and legs tied with electric cables. Their heads were covered with pillow cases before they were thrown off a bridge into the Inzinga River at Impendle. A second accused, Xolani Brian Ndlovu, 31- who pleaded guilty to robbery with aggravating circumstances, kidnapping, and murder - was sentenced on Tuesday to life imprisonment. He testified against Mthembu on Wednesday and told the court Mthembu had stabbed Christine while he loaded items into the couple’s vehicle. He said the initial plan was to steal a flat-screen television set, which they had a buyer for. He said Mthembu stabbed the woman, and this forced them to dispose of the bodies. Silent On Thursday, Warrant Officer Skhumbuzo Nicholas Mdunge told Judge Nkosinathi Chilli how he had arrested Mthembu at his home in the presence of Mthembu’s wife on March 31. He said after he had made Mthembu aware of the charges against him and his constitutional rights, Mthembu had chosen to remain silent before he was handcuffed, and again when he was detained. He said that night Mthembu had asked to make a confession and Mdunge had informed him that he had no authority to take Mthembu’s confession, but said it could be arranged for a senior police officer or a magistrate to assist him. The court heard that although Mthembu had made a confession statement to the police, he could not complete one before a magistrate although police officials had taken him there. The confession statement was returned incomplete to Mdunge. Although Mdunge said he was not made aware why Mthembu could not continue making a confession statement, Mthembu continued to request a pointing-out, which was also arranged. Mthembu’s lawyer, Zwela Khumalo, said his client would tell the court that Mdunge never informed him of his rights, including that of a right to a legal representative and of his constitutional rights. He said the only time Mthembu became aware of his rights was when he was taken to the magistrate. Khumalo further indicated that Mthembu would also tell the court he made the police statement because Mdunge had promised to “look after him”. The trial-within-a-trial continues. Daily News