Durban - Motorists especially, diesel drivers have been told to brace for a fuel hike next month that could see the price of diesel increase by as much as 30 cents a litre. The price of petrol is expected to go up by 10 cents a litre. According to the SA Household Wealth Index which was compiled by Momentum and the University of South Africa emphasised that consumers were in trouble. Debt counselling company, Debt Rescue said the Index found that overall households in South Africa were getting poorer. Statistics SA reported that the economy had grown by just 1.6% over the last five years, despite the global economy growing at 3.3% over the same period. Neil Roets, CEO of Debt Rescue, said it was obvious from their internal statistics that South Africa was in trouble. “South Africans are now considered to be one of the most indebted nations in the world by the World Bank,” said Roets. “The gravity of the situation is reflected by the fact that Debt Rescue is showing a year-on-year increase of almost 25% in clients who want to go under debt review because they cannot repay their debts.” “South African consumers have consistently notched up the unenviable reputation as having one of the highest debt ratios as a percentage of GDP among emerging market economies,” Roets continued. Debt Rescue recently conducted a survey on 5 000 of their clients, showed that the most popular type of debt was personal loans (27.99%), followed by credit card debt (23.77%). Store cards took up 14.60% of debt while overdrafts represented 12.45% of outstanding debt. “This is the primary reason why a growing army of men and women are choosing the debt review option which gives them breathing space. It allows them to repay their loans in smaller instalments over a longer period of time,” Roets said. The past week’s economic indicators revealed that the price of vegetables, oils, fats, bread, cereal and fruit decreased since the start of the year. It was lettuce, tomatoes, pumpkins and potatoes in particular that contributed to the decrease. Stats SA compared the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for August this year with January and found the price of vegetables had dropped by 3.6%‚ oils and fats by 3.9%‚ bread and cereals by 4% and fruit by 8.4%. Daily News