“We have to appoint people to the positions that are vacant and to ensure the centre holds,” Mbalula said when he briefed the National Assembly’s police committee yesterday. He and the SAPS top brass presented crime statistics for the 2016-17 financial year. “We can’t have effective policing unless we have an approach to crime intelligence. We have to address the capacity in crime intelligence in the fight against crime,” he said. Mbalula said the positions of the national commissioner and head of the Directorate of Priority Crimes Investigation (Hawks) would be filled before the end of this year. “We intend to close the gaps in the leadership of police and all other vacancies, including crime intelligence. “The environment we operate in requires leadership. SAPS needs stabilised leadership,” he said. Committee chairperson Francois Beukman said the appointment of the national commissioner was of vital importance considering the challenges faced by the police. “The country needs a competent accounting officer who has the energy, strategic vision and innovative plans to fight crime and corruption,” Beukman said. He also said the appointment of a permanent head for the crime intelligence division and its refocus to collect information proactively should be prioritised. The statistics showed an overall 1.8% drop in crime. But there were 19016 murders recorded during the period with decreases being recorded in only five provinces - Limpopo, the Northern Cape, the Free State, North West and the Eastern Cape. Murder went up 1.8%; carjackings by 14.5% and have almost tripled in Mpumalanga; residential robberies increased by over 7%; non-residential (business) robberies increased 5%; cash-in-transit heists almost tripled in two years; and stock theft rose almost 9%. Acting national commissioner Lesetja Mothiba said the police were very concerned about the violent nature of crime. “South Africans are full of anger. A person is being killed at a wink of an eye,” he said. “When there is large-scale violence in the country, it is a cause for concern.” The stats reveal there had been a 4.3% decline in sexual offences, with 49660 cases recorded. Only North West and Gauteng recorded increases - of 0.6% and 3.9% respectively. Beukman said the increase in murders nationally was a huge concern, and was indicative of the level of violence in society. “The increase in aggravated robbery overall by 6.4% countrywide is affecting the general feeling of safety of the citizenry, and should be addressed as a matter of urgency,” he said. “The committee is concerned that the trio of crimes have increased, with carjacking increasing by 14.5%, robbery at residential premises by 7.3%, and robbery at non-residential premises by 5%.” The DA’s Zakhele Mbhele noted with concern that trio crimes as well as stock theft and cash-in-transit heists were on the up again. “We are not safe on our streets and in our homes, which is a fundamental failure of the police,” Mbhele said. The Freedom Front Plus’s Petrus Groenewald said the crime situation was so serious that there was no time for rhetoric. “We must bring back professionalism, discipline and ­accountability. If you can succeed with one of those, you would have done well,” Groenewald said. The National Freedom Party’s Mansoor Shaik-Emam said police could not deal with crime and respond on their own. “What impacts are the socio-economic conditions,” Shaik-Emam said. The IFP’s Themba Msimang called for the return of the death sentence. “I wonder, minister, if this is not a time to review to have a referendum? Maybe the solution is the return of the death sentence,” Msimang said. Daily News