The appointment comes after repeated calls from the opposition for tough action to be meted out against ministers who do not attend parliamentary sessions to answer oral questions and also to respond to members’ motions. There has also been complaints about ministers not attending portfolio committee meetings. Opposition MPs reacted angrily when the ANC’s chief whip Jackson Mthembu made the announcement in the programming committee that some ministers would not attend the next oral question session. Briefing the committee, Mthembu said the national legislature should have a system of monitoring and enhancing the answering of questions in the House by the ministers. “The rules committee is working on such a system. It has started to work on such a system, including establishment of a committee that will deal with this matter under the leadership of the Deputy Speaker,” he said. “That matter is receiving attention so that, again, we don’t just complain and complain, but we put in place mechanisms on how to curb any non-answering of questions by executive ministers,” Mthembu added. He made the announcement at the request of House chairperson Mmatlala Boroto after the opposition vented their anger. DA chief whip John Steenhuisen said they were extremely dissatisfied that the ministers would not be present for oral question sessions despite the constitution stating that they were accountable to Parliament. “This should be their first priority,” Steenhuisen said. Mthembu said the complaint was valid, but the ministers would be away on state business. “We agree it is something we should pursue in the rules committee on how we strengthen and enhance the answering of questions by the executive in the House.” The EFF’s Ntombovuyo Mente said the prioritisation of Parliament in conducting an oversight function over the 
executive was being made difficult. “How ministers prioritise accountability and their work is totally out of order.” The NFP’s Nhlanhla Khubisa said the matter has been going on unabated since 2014. “We must register our concern. The answer is always it will be referred to the leader of government business. Seemingly, there is no conclusion on the matter,” Khubisa said. The DA’s Mike Waters said he failed to understand why some ministers could not attend their scheduled sessions. They “consistently undermine Parliament and consistently dodge accountability. It has got to stop”, Waters said. Daily News