Andre de Bruin and Clint Leverton, chairman and vice-chairman of the Assegai Primary School governing body, hope they can handle the matter outside the Durban High Court. De Bruin and Leverton have had an interim court order applied for against them, in their personal capacity. Last month, the court granted an interim order preventing the pair from shutting down the school over the appointment of a new principal. Earlier this year, parents protested outside the school demanding to know the process followed in selecting Thenjiwe Sharon Ndlovu as the school’s new principal. Parents believed the post should have gone to Odette Abrahams Field, vice-principal at the school for more than 20 years and acting principal for the past two years. Parents have made it clear that the issue was not racial but based on principle, in that the department should supply them with information regarding Ndlovu’s selection process. Last week, advocate Vishalan Naidu, acting on behalf of the department, submitted an application against the pair for being in contempt of the order. This followed an altercation outside the school  when Ndlovu tried to enter the premises. Naidu then applied for the contempt of court order. On October 4, according to papers filed, Bhekizenzo Ntuli, uMlazi district director, and Sathianathan Naicker, circuit manager, took Ndlovu to the school to attend to administrative duties before the new term. Ntuli said that they were sworn at and threatened by a mob, which included De Bruin and Leverton. Baron Phillips, acting on behalf of De Bruin and Leverton, filed a responding affidavit in court on Thursday, stating that at the time of the altercation Leverton was not at the school. A letter was supplied by the nursing services manager at Austerville Clinic stating that Leverton, also chairman of the Austerville Clinic Committee, had fulfilled duties as the clerk at the clinic because the person in that post was on leave. Phillips said his clients were prepared to settle outside of court because the school was functional and believed that the department was dragging out the process. The matter was adjourned to December. Daily News