Residential property prices in Durban, which is ranked 88 out of the 150 global cities surveyed, surged 3.9% between the second quarter of 2016 and the second quarter of 2017. New York and Lyon, France, which were ranked below Durban at 89 and 90 respectively, also realised a 3.9% increase in residential property prices, during the period under review. The cities of Cape Town and Johannesburg, ranked 139 and 146, achieved a contraction of -2.1% and -5.1% respectively. Besides these two South African cities, Durban, which ranked 14th out of the 165 cities surveyed last year, also beat the most expensive city in the world, Zurich, which achieved a 2.9% increase in house prices and ranked 104th. Durban and London, which achieved a 4.1% increase and was ranked 86, were separated by Spain’s capital city Madrid. The Knight Frank Global Residential Cities Index increased by 6.1% in the year to June 2017, down from the 6.9% achieved in the last quarter. The Chinese cities of Wuxi, Changsha and Zhengzhou occupied three of the top 10 rankings, down from seven in the last quarter, after achieving a combined increase of more than 61%. The head of International Residential Research, Kate Everett-Allen, said the fact that Chinese cities have dropped from occupying seven of the top 10 spots was “a deceleration rather than a crash”. “Prices are still rising on a year-on-year basis in all 20 of the Chinese cities we track within the index. The outliers have reduced in number and the lower tier cities are now outpacing cities such as Shanghai and Beijing, which have seen the most stringent cooling measures,” she said.  Toronto, Canada’s most populous city and the provincial capital of Ontario, achieved the number one spot after registering a 29.3% increase in residential property prices. It was followed by Kochi, a major port city in India, which achieved a 27.3% increase.  The index noted that cities in the Brics nations “are, on average, outperforming those in developed nations”. “Analysis of key economic and political groupings, from the G8 to Brics and MINTs, highlights the extent to which house price growth is accelerating fastest in cities located within emerging markets. “Cities in the Bric nations averaged 7.5% annual growth to June 2017 compared with cities in the European Union, which averaged 4.7% over the same period,” said Everett-Allen. MINTs referred to the cities of Mexico, Indonesia, Nigeria and Turkey. Daily News