Aggravated robbery, carjacking, residential robberies and other crimes had increased countrywide, with KZN experiencing an increase of 8.9% in commercial crime. De Haas said most concerning was the omission, by police, of torture. “The legislation makes it clear that it (torture) is a separate crime category. And we know that cases are opened (as shown in Independent Police Investigative Directorate, or Ipid, reports). So where do the police put the torture crimes? That shows the categories used cannot be relied on.” De Haas questioned the number of people killed in police shoot-outs or while in custody. “How are those deaths recorded? Are they shown as ‘culpable homicide’? We need to know, especially given the allegations made at the Moerane Commission by an Ipid manager against his own unit” The Moerane Commission of Inquiry was tasked with investigating political killings in the province. Amar Maharaj, the Ipid’s ethics manager, testified that cases of torture, assault, rape, death in police custody and death as a result of police action were “closed” and “completed” without proper investigation. He alleged this was done on the instruction of Ipid senior management to boost performance statistics. During the 2015/16 period, Ipid closed 1 150 and completed 1 490 cases, Maharaj testified at the time. A closed case refers to one that has no evidence to support allegations in the docket, while completed cases are those ready to be referred to the National Prosecuting Authority. “The failure to account for all these cases of torture and others in itself questions the validity of recording crimes and how crimes are assigned to different categories,” she said. Ipid spokesperson Moses Dlamini could not be reached for comment yesterday. During yesterday’s media briefing in Parliament, Police Minister Fikile Mbalula said political killings in KZN had not been recorded as a specific crime category because they did not arise in the statistics for the current financial year. Kidnapping cases were also not categorised. The Police and Prisons Civil Rights Union (Popcru) has called for a review of the entire police organisational structure. Asked what he thought about the credibility of the stats - given the allegations and testimony at the Commission - Popcru spokesperson Richard Mamabolo said statistics were “never 100% accurate”. However, he said SAPS had become a “Hollywood-like structure” in that almost everybody was “acting” at national and provincial structures, and units across the country. “The SAPS structure in its current form is bloated, wherein you find a lot of duplicated positions. As an example, the inspectorate and management intervention perform similar functions. The country has an acting national police commissioner, an acting DPCI (Hawks) head and an acting crime intelligence head, to cite a few. Between now and 2012, SAPS has changed the organisational structure five times, without any significant reduction of crime,” Mamabolo said. He called on Mbalula to urgently appoint permanent heads of all strategic positions, and streamline the structure to beef up the production level at police stations with senior generals who can make decisions on the spot. Vuyo Mhaga, Mbalula’s spokesperson, said crime categories fell under the operational work of the police and referred the Daily News to Brigadier Vish Naidoo, the national police spokesperson, who could not be reached for comment. Daily News