On Wednesday, party leader Zanele kaMagwaza-Msibi and her deputy Alex Kekana, who had dragged the party to court earlier this year, announced at a press conference that they have resolved their differences. Kekana showed journalists affidavits, saying this was proof that he had abandoned all court matters between himself and the party. “These matters were not driven by the interest of the party but by a selfish interest of individuals. There is a perception that I am in opposition to the president. I want to advise you today that I am not part of any camp that opposes the president and NFP structures,” he said. Kekana credited his sour relationship with KaMagwaza-Msibi to "misunderstandings", and said he and kaMagwaza-Msibi had met behind closed doors and put matters to rest. NFP national treasurer Munzoor Shaik-Emam, reading a speech on behalf of kaMagwaza-Msibi, who seemed not to have fully regained her speech and was limping, said the talks were held in pursuit of unity, stability and peace. “I want to stress that there was no bad blood between ourselves, but a misunderstanding created by internal forces aimed at sowing division,” said kaMagwaza-Msibi. Despite acting secretary-
general Phumlane Zwane last month saying the party's elective conference would be held at the beginning of December, kaMagwaza-Msibi said there would not be an elective conference this year. Shaik-Emam said membership forms would be sent around the country, followed by the process of acceptance of membership. The party would then deploy members of the ad hoc committee to inaugurate branches. Delayed That would be followed by constituency, district and then national elections. Shaik-Emam said court matters had delayed the process. “What is clear is that we will not complete this process by the end of the year.” He said a policy conference would be held before an elective conference. KaMagwaza-Msibi said the party leadership was now focusing on reviving and resuscitating the NFP and she extended an olive branch to aggrieved party members to "come forward and engage". KaMagwaza-Msibi, who is recuperating from a stroke which saw her taking lengthy sick leave from political activities, disbanded the party's NEC and PEC in May. She had accused the structures of, among other things, being responsible for the party's failure to participate in the local government elections. The NFP was disqualified from participating in the August 2016 local government elections after failing to meet the deadline to pay the mandatory deposit to the Electoral Commission of SA. She had also accused them of having failed to hold the party's elective conference. Challenging the decision in papers filed at the Pietermaritzburg High Court in May, Kekana accused the party leader of contravening the party's constitution and said: “The meeting where she disbanded the NEC and the PEC was not properly constituted as it was not convened by the NEC. The president doesn't have powers to convene a meeting.” Daily News