An audit process was carried out by secretary-general Gwede Mantashe to determine the number of branches in good standing, and KwaZulu-Natal will send 870 delegates from 11 regions to represent the province in December. Party provincial secretary Super Zuma on Thursday said the delegate numbers were based on the number of members at a branch - 100 members is equal to one delegate, and for every additional 250 members the branch is allocated one additional delegate. Zuma would not divulge how many branches did not qualify "as the province is in the process of notifying the regional leaders". Zuma said branches with a membership of less than 100 members did not qualify to run BGMs, and this included branches whose term of leadership had expired. “Branches that have more than 100 members but their term of office has expired will have to elect branch leadership so that they become branches in good standing before they run BGMs,” he said. Zuma said the party did not anticipate any challenges, but added that it would appoint teams to assess the processes. “We are training leaders who will be deployed to run the BGMs. We are also training our branch leaders and members so that they understand the guidelines and what is expected of them,” Zuma said. He said a directive from the national office gave branches until the end of the month to hold meetings. Political analyst Lukhona Mnguni said the BGMs were likely to be tense owing to serious and personal differences in the branches. He said the margin of victory in each branch was important. Mnguni said the possibility of manipulation existed as the branch secretaries, who convene meetings, could exclude some branch members by not giving them fair notice of the sitting of a meeting. “If they feel that their faction could make up the quorum of the branch, they could informally disseminate the date of the meeting to their faction first, so that they could be ready to attend the meeting, and then give the other members the shortest acceptable amount of time allowed for notice of the meeting,” Mnguni said. “It will be interesting to observe the ANC’s turnaround plan for BGMs that collapse,” Mnguni said. He said there could be smooth running of processes in the majority of branches, as long as members were committed to follow processes in the correct manner. “But there will be instances of undue influence and manipulation of the process,” Mnguni said. He said the question that remained was whether branches would nominate according to the multiple (seven) candidates, or on consolidated slates. “The more consolidated the slates are, the more competitive the process becomes, because it becomes a two-horse race,” Mnguni said. Daily News