Durban - A policewoman was killed this morning and her firearm taken during a robbery in Bonela. The woman, in her 30's, was dressed in full police uniform at the time of the incident. It is alleged that she was approached by a group of four men and robbed of her state firearm. Five shots were fired and the woman sustained gunshot wounds to the chin and neck. The police sergeant and mother of two children was based at the Maydon Wharf police station. Witnesses told police that they saw a group of four men standing around a tuck shop that was open for business. When the police woman walked down to wait for a taxi the men approached her.  It is alleged that one of them shot her and when she fell to the ground on her back they shot her a few times more execution style. The men fled the scene. Seven bullet cartridges were found at the scene. It is unclear if they used her own state firearm to shoot her. Her phone was still in her pocket leaving police to believe that it was not a robbery.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Garrith Jamieson, Rescue Care spokesperson, said when they arrived at the scene, they found that the woman had sustained fatal injuries. He said she was declared dead at the scene. Cato Manor police are investigating a case of murder and armed robbery. Meanwhile in uMhlanga, a woman is recovering in hospital after falling down several storeys from an apartment balcony last night. Nick Dollman, Netcare911 spokesperson, said the woman was found in an enclosed area in another apartment on the ground floor. “Paramedics used a ladder from the Netcare 911 Rescue Unit to climb over the high walls to gain access to  the patient. Advanced Life Support paramedics attended to her,” he said. The woman was suffered critical injuries and was unresponsive. Dollman said she was placed on a ventilator at the scene before being transported to a nearby hospital. Daily News