And unsupervised children are trying to buy them. “As a retailer, I will sell what my customer wants regardless of the regulations,” said a Chatsworth businessman, who did not want to be named. The South African Hindu Maha Sabha has supported the ban on big bangs and has appealed to all those celebrating Diwali to do so with caution, respecting other cultural groups during the festival. Ashwin Trikamjee, president of the South African Maha Sabha, said: “ We want all those celebrating to do so responsibly and adhere to the respective hours allocated. The festival is a time for social cohesion and the victory of good over evil.” Trikamjee’s message this Diwali is to think about the less fortunate and to use the time to reflect on how to make a change in someone’s life. Metro police acting head Steve Middleton said the city respected and appreciated the different religions and cultural practices in eThekwini. He said by-laws categorised Diwali as a religious and cultural day. “Any fireworks that are classified in the Explosives Act No 26 of 1956 as 1.3 are to be discharged by a qualified pyro-technician and only ordinary shop-bought fireworks are permitted for use by ordinary residents,” he said. Deon Moodley has been selling fireworks for the past 15 years in Phoenix and said big bangs were very popular. “Even though there have been restrictions on the noise caused, many people still want Gorilla Bombs and Black Widows. Children also come in without the supervision of their parents and that is how unfortunate tragedies and loss of life take place.” The KZN Fireworks Association said it respected the ban on big-bang fireworks and urged people to use fireworks responsibly and safely. Another retailer in Chatsworth, who spoke to the Daily News on condition of anonymity, said fireworks had become more popular than before. “Previously parents would not spend as much because the prices have increased. Parents are influenced by their children and they want the loud bangs.” Chris Mthembu of the metro police said they would have teams on standby in case of emergencies “The metro police and other emergency services will be available to the public as, during this time of the year, we have many incidents where people are injured or criminals use this time to indulge in criminal activities such as hi-jackings.” Mthembu said anyone using fireworks in public illegally would be fined.“The public is allowed to set off fireworks between 7pm and 10pm; thereafter a fine of R1500 will be charged,” he said. Daily News