Marcus Chetty told the Daily News he was visiting a relative at the hospital, his niece’s grandmother, at the time. He said the child’s mother and grandfather were at the grandmother’s bedside at the time the pair made the discovery. “I had her on my shoulders and as I was pacing up and down, she asked me why her grandmother was wrapped in plastic. At that time she was pointing at something she was looking at through the window of the equipment room. “I went and took a closer look and, on discovering that it was human remains, I went to the nurses at the nearest ward to report this. The nurses simply told me that was normal, and they looked at me like I was stupid. There was no dignity in the manner in which that person’s body was handled. I still have flashbacks of the room,” Chetty said. The body was wrapped in plastic with the person’s foot sticking out. It was on a hospital bed, but the room was filled with boxes and books - an equipment or storage room, Chetty said. Since the strange find, he has not been contacted by the department or hospital and said his niece kept asking why the person was wrapped in plastic. “It’s obvious she has been affected by this because she saw the body at a time when her grandmother was admitted to the hospital. In that room, boxes and books were scattered around, and there was only one bed. It is definitely not a place to keep dead people,” he said. Hospital board member Mervin Reddy said he was appalled by the child’s “gruesome” discovery. He said the board would “pull out all the stops” to get an explanation for how the body ended up in the room under such conditions. “If there’s any wrongdoing in the manner in which the deceased was handled, those responsible will have to be held accountable. I spoke to the man (Chetty) today, and most disturbing is that he and the child have not received counselling,” Reddy said. He said if Chetty’s explanation was anything to go by, then the manner in which the body was “prepared” and the place it was kept were inhumane. Ncamisile Nkwanyana, MPL and IFP spokesperson on health, asked: “We want to know why this body was left in an equipment room instead of sending it to the mortuary. Who was on duty on that day? Where were the porters?” KZN Department of Health spokesperson Sam Mkhwanazi said“the place (room) where the mortal remains had been placed (while waiting for the mortuary staff to collect it) was out of bounds to the public, let alone a child. However, a child who was allegedly being carried on her father’s shoulders prised open a window on the high level of the building, as well as a curtain, which then allegedly revealed the mortal remains. “The alleged incident is regrettable and the department is awaiting more clarity from facility management about it”. He said the department had since contacted the child’s family and offered her professional counselling. Mkhwanazi did not explain why the body had been stored in an 
equipment room. Daily News