Speaking to the Daily News a day after Berea police station showed a surge in contact crime, Lieutenant-Colonel Richard Blood said he was confident the station would decrease crime in its precinct. National crime statistics were released by Minister of Police Fikile Mbalula in Parliament on Tuesday. Berea reported an increase in murder, sexual offences, house robbery, business robbery and house burglary, with carjacking - more than doubling from April 1 last year to March 31 this year. Blood, the newly appointed head of Berea SAPS Visible Policing, said he believed there was a good chance that the station’s statistics would improve in the weeks to come. “We must remember that those are the stats for the previous financial year. So far we have seen an improvement in crime fighting in our area. With carjackings and theft of motor vehicles, there has been a decrease. “We have joined hands with security companies and we meet weekly. We are changing our patrol strategies,” he said. Previously, the station had set up a task team to deal specifically with contact crimes, and Blood said they were closely working with the specialised units at national level. “There is a newly formed operational command centre and they are working with us at cluster level. There will be vehicles parked in areas that we have identified with increased criminal activity. “There are a lot of complexes and apartment buildings in the precinct. Here too, with the help of community police forums (CPF) and private security, we have mapped out the hot spots and peak times,” Blood said. He said that there were many exit routes out of the Berea. Police had mapped out routes and would be beefing up patrols in these areas. Blood advised residents to report all crimes to police, no matter how insignificant it might seem. “Residents must not only report incidents on WhatsApp groups. Although these groups are effective, police still need to know the hot spots and when crime happens. That way, we will be able to increase patrols in those areas,” he said. Paul Antao, chairman of the Berea SAPS CPF, said he believed Berea had a higher crime rate because of its location. “It is a thoroughfare to surrounding Durban areas. Most of the criminals arrested for serious crimes in Berea do not live there, but are familiar with the geography,” he said. Kyle van Reenen, of Marshall Security, a private security company based in Durban North, encouraged residents to report crime to police. Durban North showed an increase in murder, sexual offences and house robbery. There was a decrease in carjacking, business robbery and house burglary. Van Reenen said there was also an increase in violent crime in the area. “Criminals are coming in high-powered vehicles. They storm homes and are armed. They are mainly taking jewellery, flat-screen televisions and electronic devices. We need for people to report these crimes. The more crimes are reported, the more resources can be put into those areas,” he said. Durban North councillor Shaun Ryley said he was satisfied that statistics relating to violent crime remained relatively low. “Crime-fighting programmes and operations are rolled out  continually at 
stations and are adapted to deal with the fluctuations in trends. There is always room for improvement, though,” he said.