Teichmann has backed the Daily News’s social media campaign #FillUpTheSharkTank, which aims to unite Durbanites to fill Growthpoint King’s Park stadium. It is the first time in four years the Sharks will play in a Currie Cup final and the fact that it will be played at home - the Shark Tank - is not lost on Teichmann. “This is a fantastic opportunity, not just for the Sharks brand, but for Durban as a whole,” the former Sharks captain said. “There is going to be entertainment on the outside field, a good vibe inside the stadium and the match starts at 4pm, which is nice time for everyone. “The Sharks’ home matches are always geared towards families and we encourage the kids to come. We open the main field after the game and the kids love it. And crowd favourite Sharkie will be around.” Teichmann - the CEO of the Sharks since June last year after the resignation of another former Sharks captain, John Smit - said a home final was a fitting tribute to coach Robert du Preez, who has helped a young, talented group of men play an exciting brand of rugby. “We have won 10 out of 12 Currie Cup matches. To me, that’s success. There are areas of our game we need to improve and we will continue to strive to improve. The priority is to win, but you also want to win by playing a good brand of rugby.” The Currie Cup, in its 128th year, is when players with an eye on a Springbok jersey test their mettle against the country’s top players. Teichmann said the Currie Cup would always be special to fans and players alike. “It has quite a history. It is a great competition, where you see the next generation of players and you can blood all this new talent for Super Rugby.” The attendance at matches this season has been a concern to Teichmann, who was disappointed that only 18 000 people attended the home semi-final on Saturday. “We seat 55 000 people and there is no greater experience for players than when the stadium is full. The players understand they play a massive part in attracting the fans to the stadium by playing a decent brand of entertaining rugby. This Saturday we are going to have to be on top of our game. The way we started against the Bulls is the way we’re going to play for 80 minutes.” Filling Growthpoint King’s Park stadium will “be a great way to show the rest of the world that our domestic game is still strong”. “We appeal to all our supporters to fill the stadium with black and white. No blues please.” Daily News