The government is reviewing the plan after an outcry over its plans to splurge R32m on refurbishing of the Parkside Residence. In a joint statement by the offices of Mchunu and Public Works MEC Ravi Pillay, both leaders discussed whether building a swimming pool and a braai area was necessary. According to the statement, Pillay said R32m was an estimation to be spent on the project over a period of seven years. “MEC Pillay said the projected cost of the renovations was the result of an exercise carried out by a full professional team. The projected costs for the renovations of the Parkside Residence are spread over a period of seven years, and are in line with stipulations of the Amafa Heritage Council regarding buildings over 60 years of age,” read the statement. The cost of the renovation was revealed by Mchunu in responding to the DA’s written parliamentary questions. He said the facility should be used as the premier’s official residence “when necessary”, for hosting his guests, for conferences, press conferences and official meetings. According to a media report late last week, the renovation of the bathroom would cost R540000, electric light fittings would cost R180000, and R1010000 would be spent for the swimming pool and braai area. It is estimated that the work would be completed in 2023. The statement said so far only R821 000  had been spent on the renovation of the 137-year-old residence, which comprises the main house, two conference facilities, staff quarters and ­office facilities. Because of its age, the facility is protected by the Amafa Heritage Council, which monitors the renovation so that its original look would not be affected. The statement said it was then premier Senzo Mchunu who had requested the refabrication in the 2013/14 financial year. DA MPL Sizwe Mchunu said his party was concerned that the costs might spiral before 2023. He said every month the government spent about R15960 on garden maintenance, while the monthly electricity bill was estimated at R10 000, although sources close to the premier said he had never lived in the facility since he took office two years ago. Sizwe said the amount, which Mchunu’s office had allocated for the work was a slap in the face “of every person in our province struggling to make ends meet”. “In particular, it is a blow for those who are currently homeless or who have been living in transit camps for years as they wait for low-cost government housing. “With KZN’s current massive housing backlog every cent counts, and the R32m allocated to upgrade the premier’s residence could have built more than 300 low-cost housing units. In short, it could have given at least 300 families some dignity and hope,” he said. He said the DA would demand further explanation from the premier’s office. ANC spokesperson Mdumi­seni Ntuli said he would not comment on the matter since he lacked facts. “I cannot speculate that R32m was too much for the project, because the amount might not mean anything wrong since renovating an old property might be equal to rebuilding it. “The DA sees a scandal everywhere the ANC is involved. It is not like what the DA sees is always true,” he said. Daily News