Mahlobo’s move from State Security to Energy was among changes announced by President Jacob Zuma in a shock cabinet reshuffle on Tuesday morning. Former Energy Minister Mmamoloko Kubayi, who has been in the portfolio since March 31, was moved to the Department of Communications. “Kubayi was brought to the Department of Energy to complete certain tasks. Those were to ensure that the nuclear programme remains on the table. It was also to ensure that the sale of South Africa’s strategic fuel stocks is not investigated,” said Mondi. Just over a month into her role as energy minister, Kubayi in May admitted in Parliament that the fuel stocks had been sold. That was contrary to her predecessor Tina Joemat-Pettersson’s claims - also in Parliament - that the assets had been “rotated”. In her maiden budget vote speech on May 19, Kubayi zoomed into the governance problems at PetroSA and the Central Energy Fund saying the energy fund would be restructured to ensure accountability and efficiency. One of the steps she took was to second the department’s director-general, Thabane Zulu, to the Strategic Fuel Fund, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the energy fund. This, she said at the time, was to ensure the implementation of recommendations “in light of the report on the selling of strategic fuel reserves for the country”. Mondi said Kubayi’s vigour to get to the bottom of the sale of the fuel stocks might have contributed to her removal. “She touched the snake’s tail.” He said Mahlobo - who is considered a Zuma confidante and loyalist - would ensure the implementation of the nuclear programme. “He will do whatever the shadow state wants him to do. He is there to ensure that in light of the uncertainty regarding the National Prosecuting Authority the good times continue to roll on the back of South African resources,” said Mondi. He was referring to last week’s decision by the Supreme Court of Appeal in Bloemfontein to dismiss Zuma and the National Prosecuting Authority’s appeal in the “spy tapes” saga. Business Unity South Africa also added its voice to the changes at the Energy Department, saying it was concerned about the lack of stability in the energy sector. It pointed to the leadership instability at Eskom and controversies within the Central Energy Fund. Daily News