“We must do something before we have normal protest escalating into something uncontrollable. We can’t afford what happened in Libya to happen here,” she warned. Human Settlements Minister Sisulu had been invited by the South African Muslim Network to speak at the Mariam Bee hall in Overport. “On a daily basis we deal with countless service delivery protests where our people, who feel marginalised, take to the streets. Schools are torched, libraries destroyed and lives lost. Political killings are rampant because of a desire to be on top in the municipality list,” she told the audience. Sisulu said her campaign was being run on principle rather than expediency or personal ambition. “This is a marathon and not a sprint. A lot can happen between now and the day of the elective conference I am running as a champion for the issues that I espouse,” she said. Sisulu said she was against factionalism. A two-horse race encouraged factionalism, which would turn December’s elective conference into another Polokwane, she added. “The more candidates there are, the less likely that the conference will elect the national leadership along factional lines. “We have been down this road and this is where it has gotten us.” Sisulu said it was time for the ANC to elect a woman president - there were three competent women who had made themselves available for the position. She told the audience that the Pretoria Supreme Court judgment, which found that Ahmed Timol was killed by security police at John Vorster Square in Johannesburg, only confirmed what many South Africans knew. “The judgment communicates that the freedom which we enjoy today was achieved because many of our people fought hard and sacrificed their lives. It also tells us that whatever the setbacks of the moment, and the occasional hurdles along the path, we have democratic institutions such as the judiciary that are vibrant and live up to the letter and intent of our founding document, the constitution." Although Sisulu brought her campaign to KwaZulu-Natal, branches in the province that have held branch general meetings have opted for Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma and Cyril Ramaphosa. At some branches Sisulu’s name has been placed on the list of the party’s top seven. Daily News