Residents who spoke on condition of anonymity said money was being collected under the guise of paying for convicted hit man Mxoleleni Bhani’s appeal at the SCA. He was recently convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of hostel resident Sipho Ndovela, and 12 years for the attempted murder of another hostel resident last month. Bhani lost his leave to appeal his conviction and sentence in the Durban High Court. Allegations surfaced that a meeting was held at the hostel last week where residents were told to start paying R30 a day for an attorney to make the SCA application. Residents said they were misled to believe it was to finance Bhani’s appeal. They were convinced it was actually to fund criminal activities. “Whenever money is being collected, people die. We believe these monies were being collected to pay for hit men. “We have no choice, but to pay. If we refuse or question this, we put our own lives in danger,” said a resident. He said in July, for example, money was collected and soon after murders escalated at the hostel. He said they believed the collections earlier this month were linked to the shooting of two men and a woman at Block K last weekend. The people - aged 25, 30 and 37 - were attacked in their rooms and shot several times. They were taken to hospital where the 37-year-old later died. The man had fled the hostel in 2014 and had recently returned. “We do not buy the story that the collections were for the appeal. “The kind of money being collected would not begin to pay the appeal legal fees, which raised suspicions that the money would finance criminal activities,” said the resident. Vanessa Burger, an independent community activist for human rights and social justice, said rumours of this latest collection had first begun circulating about two weeks ago and last weekend three people were shot at Block K. “Whether the early October rumours and the latest murder are connected remain to be seen, or if the money to be collected this week would be indeed for Bhani’s appeal. Over the years, the pattern has proved depressingly familiar - money is collected and someone dies,” she said. Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane, provincial police spokesperson, encouraged Glebelands Hostel residents to approach the police with such information. A source within the National Prosecuting Authority said they had not been informed about an SCA application regarding Bhani’s conviction and sentence. Daily News