Although the exams would commence on October 23, some pupils began writing Computer Application Technology and Information Technology practical papers today. Some schools’ computer laboratories were damaged in last week’s storm. Kwazi Mthethwa, the department spokesperson, said while plans were being made to repair the damages, contingencies were in place for affected schools to be able to write the exam. He said mobile classrooms, school halls and community halls would be used as exam venues. At Umlazi Comtech High School, computers were set up in the school hall after the computer lab was damaged. At Swelihle High School, also in uMlazi, teachers prayed that the damage to the roof of the computer lab would not spread to the rest of the building. School principal Zandile Sithole said they hoped the weather would clear to avoid further damage to this block. “Although the lab itself was not affected, I am worried that if it continues to rain, further damage might be caused. I am holding thumbs that the weather clears,” she said. Sithole was also worried about the start of the rest of the exams as most classrooms at the school had been affected by the storm. She said that before the storm, classes had been overcrowded and would be even more so now with fewer classrooms available. Part of the classroom and administration blocks were damaged when trees fell on the roof. The teacher’s car was also damaged. Meanwhile, Mthethwa said the department had registered 1 688 public schools that would be used as exam centres and 69 independent school exam centres. “We are ready for the administration of the exams. All the processes, from the administration of the examination centres to the release of the results, have been planned,” said Mthethwa. About 193 786 candidates are registered to write the exams in KZN. This is the highest number of candidates in a province. A total of 153 624 were full-time candidates and 40 318 were part-time candidates. Mthethwa said more girls than boys would write exams this year, with the highest number of girl pupils coming from the King Cetshwayo district and the least number of female candidates being in the Harry Gwala district. He said Zululand had the highest number of progressed pupils (those who had failed a grade for two consecutive years and were moved to the next grade) with 25 979 registered candidates. The department is targeting a 10% pass rate increase to achieve a 76% pass rate for this year. Mthethwa said the department had implemented various interventions to meet this target through the writing of common tests, winter classes and boot camps. Recently, the department hosted spring vacation classes which focused on subjects such as accounting, economics, English, geography, life sciences, maths literacy and physical science. Daily News