These schools previously struggled to administer and manage the National Senior Certificate (NSC) exam and, as a result, monitors were dispatched to these schools on Tuesday, when all matric candidates wrote their first paper. The monitors would be at the schools until the end of the exams. Introduced after a rise in the number of irregularities and group copying cases reported in KwaZulu-Natal, the monitors were trained to detect irregularities during the exams. In the past, KZN was ranked as one of the provinces with the highest number of schools accused of cheating during exams. While some principals collected exam papers for their schools from the department offices, schools with a history of cheating  had exam papers delivered in official vehicles and collected immediately after the exam session. During the invigilating process,  the resident monitor sat in the exam centre and conducted his observation of the exams. Exam monitors arrived unannounced at exam centres and stayed for the duration of the exams. Thirona Moodley, the National Professional Teachers’ Organisation of South Africa (Naptosa) spokesperson, expressed concern about the late training of monitors for this year’s matric exams. She said the department had only called for workshops last week. “The workshops were only done at the eleventh hour. “We hope that the monitors have the expertise to do the job and prevent the province from being implicated in another group copying scandal,” she said. Good sign Allen Thompson, the National Teachers’ Union (Natu) deputy president, said no irregularities were reported. This was a good sign that an examination process free of irregularities was possible. He said the exam monitors were visible at schools, and while some came unannounced, Natu was of the view that the exam process should be a transparent one. “Exam monitors should be free and welcomed at our schools. We must all ensure the exams go without any form of cheating and irregularities,” said Thompson. Sadtu deputy secretary Bheki Shandu said the Education Department was pro-active in monitoring that the exams took place without incident. He said while Sadtu officials conducted their own monitoring, the exam monitors would ensure that schools had no opportunities to cheat. “It becomes difficult for the would-be cheaters to do so. “It’s concerning to see educators getting implicated in the alleged cheating. “We urge teachers to give the learners an opportunity to write the exams, and for their results to become evidence of the teacher’s hard work,” said Shandu. He said Sadtu had high hopes that the monitoring system in place would ensure exams that were free of 
any irregularities. Daily News