Jabulile Msiya and Ntsiki Mafa were wounded in the shooting incident three months ago. “There are always delays when it comes to sorting out this security issue. The delays might lead to us being killed. We came here without protection and we may not even make it home. “They (the municipality) don’t care, no one has bothered to inform us of the progress on security arrangements. We live by the grace of God,” Msiya said. “We have repeatedly asked for protection but have been told the matter was going to tender. “The premier has also raised the issue - we are women and we have survived a hit“ she said. She claimed that Umzimkhulu municipal officials were quick to allocate themselves bodyguards following the shooting of municipal speaker Khaya Thobela in May without that process going to tender. Msiya, who is also an executive council member told the commissioners, tasked with investigating political killings in KwaZulu-Natal, that divisions within the ANC in the Umzimkhulu Municipality, were as a result of a few council members taking a strong stance against corruption while the majority were interested in becoming wealthy. Msiya said her faction was sidelined in progress meetings concerning the memorial hall, which has cost millions of rand and is only 50% complete. She said her faction was anti-corruption and committed to clean, ethical governance while the majority of ANC members in the council were hell bent on “capturing” Umzimkhulu. “We proposed that a forensic investigation be conducted because we suspected corruption,” Msiya said. She said the majority in the council defeated them in a voting process and the conclusion was that there would be no investigation. “I found myself conflicted between my conscience and the collective loyalty to the ANC. Whenever there is a meeting, the community would ask about the progress of the hall, they would interrogate me, and I struggled to give answers,” she added. She said after Thobela’s murder, Magaqa told her they were next on a hit list. She said the top three people on the list had already been assassinated and she is afraid she could be next. “Two weeks before Mduduzi Tshibase was killed, he told us he was followed by a senior regional leader. He was worried that the leader was helping a hit man to identify him.” Mafa said the Ibis area where the shooting took place remained tense. “It’s painful that I don’t have bodyguards, while some council members are protected. My life is also in danger,” she said. Umzimkhulu mayor, Mphuthumi Mpabanga, said a threat analysis had been conducted and upon its completion the councillors were told that they would be assigned the same security personnel that protect the mayor, deputy mayor and chief whip. The councillors did not want these bodyguards, Mpabanga said. “We are currently in the process of checking the municipal by-laws to see if we can provide the same service using different service providers,” he said. Mpabanga declined to comment on allegations of divisions and corruption as all the matters were currently being investigated by the public protector. Daily News