The ship was deployed to help conduct wide-ranging marine research in the ocean. This voyage marks 50 years since the first Indian Ocean research expedition. Scientists on the trip are expected to collect long-term environmental data that will help countries situated along the Indian Ocean coast to find ways to unlock their ocean economies, as well as to detect and adapt to ocean-related threats to coastal towns and infrastructure Dr Edna Molewa, Minister of Environmental Affairs, said the South Africa leg of the global scientific programme is a collaborative oceanographic and atmospheric study. Molewa said South Africa’s contribution to the expedition is an African research cruise along the east coast of Africa by the SA Agulhas II. The programme is a multinational programme of the UN Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) which emphasises the need to research the Indian Ocean, its influence on the climate and its marine ecosystem. “This will be the first African-led research cruise that comprises scientists and students from South Africa, Mozambique, Kenya, Nigeria and Egypt. Other international scientists and students joining the research cruise are from India, Belgium and Italy. “The data collection will cover physics, chemistry, plankton, biodiversity, biology such as whales, seals and sea birds as well as geology. All these areas provide important information in understanding the ocean environment and its links to developing a successful ocean economy,” Molewa explained. Sizwekazi Yapi, uShaka Sea World education facilitator, returned from a 10-day voyage of discovery on the Agulhas last month. Yapi was one of a group of marine science students who were hosted as part of the SEAmester II course, an exclusive class aboard the SA Agulhas II. The programme aimed to introduce upcoming marine science students to applied marine science through practical deck work and lectures by experts. Students had to choose one of two marine research streams and were required to work on a mini project for presentation, as well as performing data-collection tasks. During the data-collection sampling exercise, a number of fascinating biology specimens emerged. “Having this opportunity has helped to broaden my knowledge base and has provided me with practical applications for my work as a facilitator within the uShaka Sea World Education Centre,” said Yapi. “The programme was a fantastic way to learn the correlation between astronomy, meteorology, biology and oceanography, and although the schedule was tight, it was worth every second spent busy,” she said. Daily New