Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said two men were allegedly trying to steal a Ford Meteor in a side street off Milner Road yesterday morning. Metro police spotted them near the car. Mbhele said the men pointed a firearm at the advancing police vehicle and fled down the lane. “Police fired a shot towards the suspects. One suspect was injured and the other escaped. Police recovered a firearm. The injured suspect was taken to hospital,” Mbhele said. Sylvia Wheeler, 82, the owner of the vehicle, said she had parked her car on the lawn overnight because the family had had a braai in her forecourt. When she got up yesterday morning, she saw her car still parked outside. She thought she would have a cup of coffee and then drive the car into her property later. A  few minutes later she heard a loud bang and police sirens. She peered out the gate and saw a man in handcuffs lying on the ground. A private security guard told her that the men had broken the small window on the driver’s side of the car and tried to steal it. “I am grateful to the policemen who apprehended him. I use the car for shopping and visiting a friend. The car was a gift from my son four years ago,” Wheeler said. Cases of attempted theft of a motor vehicle, and pointing of a firearm, were opened at the Berea police station. According to police crime statistics, there was a 2.3% drop in motor vehicle thefts between April 2015 and March 31 last year. The decrease was attributed to a decline in the market for older model vehicles and their spare parts. Newer model vehicles have improved security features, which makes it preferable to criminals to  hijack rather than to steal them. Police recorded 53809 cases of theft of motor vehicles and motorcycles during 2015/16, compared to 85979 in 2006/07. Police analysis found that most vehicles were stolen in the victims’ yards or parking areas at shopping centres. In KwaZulu-Natal, 63.4% of the incidents occurred from Wednesday to Saturdays between 6am and 6pm. Police statistics revealed that the contributing factor was a lack of secure parking where cars were left unattended for long periods. The demand for second-hand parts results in stolen vehicles, particularly older models, ending up in so-called chop shops. Daily News