Durban - Now that clean-up operations intensify after last week's devastating storm, Durban residents have been told to be on the lookout for slithering snakes who are likely to increase. But fear not, Simon Keys and Siouxsie Gillett, snake rescuers from the popular Nat Geo Wild television show, Snakes in the City say they are on hand to help. Keys and Gillett have urged residents who come across snakes to contact experts rather than trying to remove the snakes themselves. “We are calling out to all residents who come across snakes to please not handle them, but rather call out a snake catcher to retrieve and re-home the snake,” said Gillett. “Because of the recent flooding, residents in the Durban area and surrounds might expect to see snakes,” Gillett explained. “This isn’t because snakes are active in rainy, windy weather, but rather that the high rainfall would have washed them out of their homes or pushed them from trees.” Gillett said snakes do not create holes but a few live in them in order to feel secure. After the storm, ground saturation caused snakes to leave their homes, leading them to seek shelter in homes, garages and even cars. “The rain will have encouraged frog and toad activity which, in turn, brings out snakes with an amphibian diet such as herald snakes, night adders, forest cobras and spitting cobras drawn to the abundance of food,” said Gillett. “The dispersal of litter from the floods will also see an increase in the rodent population – another food source for snakes.” The couple has already been called in to remove a night adder at Wilson’s Wharf, which is on Victoria Embankment. “This isn’t an area we’d usually find night adders but it had obviously been washed down the river. There is a chance that people will find snakes in rather strange places following the floods until everything has settled,” continued Gillett. She said since snakes rely on outside temperatures for warmth and function, the sunshine will bring them out. Audiences can view this charismatic British snake-catching duo on season 4 of Snakes in the City, brought to television screens by production company, Earth Touch New Network, every Monday at 6pm on Nat Geo Wild. The couple also shares useful insights on snakes with the public during their informative Facebook Live sessions on the Snakes in the City Fanpage every Monday at 1pm. Daily News