He was speaking after Buthelezi announced on Sunday he would be retiring after being at the helm for 42 years. Mdlalose assisted Buthelezi in forming the IFP in 1975, and he represented the IFP during the Convention for a Democratic South Africa (Codesa), the multi-party negotiations before the first democratic elections. The IFP deployed him as the first KZN premier. He is now retired from politics. Read: IFP leader Buthelezi to step down Describing Buthelezi, Mdlalose said he always wanted things done properly and never tolerated silly mistakes. Buthelezi is expected to hand over the reins of the party in December, possibly to Hlabisa Municipality Mayor and KwaZulu-Natal IFP secretary Velenkosini Hlabisa, who he endorsed as his preferred successor during a press briefing in Durban on Sunday. Mdlalose said Buthelezi’s shortcomings included his short temper. “He could be really angry; he had a short temper when someone did something wrong. “He is a human being too, and when something went wrong he would get angry.” Mdlalose declined to comment on Hlabisa, saying he “had never met the man”. Mdlalose said Buthelezi’s retirement was well deserved and he credited him for “running a corruption-free Zululand government”. Also, for ensuring that the KwaZulu-Natal government under the IFP was incorruptible. Another of Buthelezi’s shortcomings was his workaholic attitude, he said. He was someone who would work throughout the night and survive on very little sleep. “He puts too much pressure on himself. He would write his own speeches and he would make sure that his typists did not make mistakes. “He made sure that things were done thoroughly to the point that he would quarrel with people,” said Mdlalose. Buthelezi had successfully instilled discipline in the party’s government leaders. “He is a man of honesty, justice and accountability. Buthelezi is a man of integrity; he never stole money left, right and centre. Now even a fool can see how money is being stolen. We never stole money under Buthelezi. There was accountability when money was spent. “We would account for every cent we used, which is unlike what is happening now where the ANC leaders select their own people and exclude the ability of other people,” Mdlalose said. Unlike other former Bantustan government leaders, Buthelezi’s IFP initially had control of KwaZulu-Natal under the Nelson Mandela administration but lost the province to the ANC in subsequent elections. Mdlalose said the party was reclaiming its ground. Mdlalose’s daughter Makhosi justified Buthelezi’s choice of Hlabisa, describing him as a good recruiter who had the potential to take the party forward and help it regain lost ground. Makhosi is a former IFP MP and is currently executive committee member at the Amajuba District Municipality. She had previously worked with Hlabisa. “He is able to organise and is stable and steady.” She would prefer to have Hlabisa at the party’s helm “because he knows what he wants. He is not wishy-washy. He is efficient. He played an excellent role in organising by-election campaigns in the Nquthu municipality. I respect him for helping the IFP take over Nquthu”, she said. Daily News