Just more than two months ago, 63 families were forcibly removed from the low-cost housing facility in Sydenham for not paying rent. This resulted in families being split up and many having to seek shelter with friends at the complex to watch over their belongings, including beds and furniture, left outside. Residents have been locked in a battle with First Metro, a company mandated by the eThekwini Municipality to build and maintain houses more than a decade ago. Residents believe they are the rightful owners of the houses as they were told it would be on a rent-to-own basis. However there have been ongoing battles with families being evicted after failing to pay rent. Last month, residents gathered on the steps of the city hall in a bid to meet eThekwini mayor Zandile Gumede. However, Gumede was not available. READ: Howell Road residents vow to sleep on Mayor's doorstep Since then, members of the committee have been meeting a specialised task force, the National Rapid Response Team (NRRT) in a bid to find an interim resolution to the crisis. According to Popo Zungu, chairperson of the Howell Road committee, they hoped that a solution would be discussed on Wednesday. “We want the houses to be opened for the evicted people because this process has been going on for too long. There still has to be a meeting with First Metro next week just to see whether there can be an interim solution where those evicted residents can be allowed back into their homes in the meantime. This will also assist with those facing evictions so they can be halted until the final decision,” he said. READ AND WATCH: Eviction trauma of Howell Road residents Zungu said this would be a better solution until a final agreement was reached as many families suffered further damage to their furniture after last week’s storm. He said they had handed over all the paperwork to the NRRT and were hopeful that they would return to their homes soon. Tuso Zibula, from the national Department of Human Settlements, said they would await a report from the NRRT following yesterday’s meeting and if there was a need for Minister Lindiwe Sisulu to intervene in the matter, she would. NOW READ: Storm causes more misery for Howell Road families When asked for comment from the city regarding the meeting, the Daily News was referred to Mthunzi Gumede, mayoral spokesperson. He said he had not been at the meeting and did not know what was discussed. Mbulelo Baloyi, provincial Department of Human Settlements spokesperson, said the meeting was between NRRT and Mondli Mthembu, chairperson of the municipality’s Human Settlements and Infrastructure Executive Council. Baloyi added that the meeting was a routine one as a follow up to previous deliberations between the municipality and the NRRT, which was appointed at ministerial level. The meetings, according to Baloyi, had been taking place even before the families were evicted. Municipal spokesperson Tozi Mthethwa had not responded to a request for comment at the time of publication. Daily News